5. Banks PA, Freeman ML, and the Practice Parameters Committee of the American College of Gastroenterology. Practice guidelines in acute pancreatitis. Am J Gastroenterol 2006;101:2379–2400.
6. UK Working Party on Acute Pancreatitis. UK guidelines for the management of acute pancreatitis. Gut 2005;54:1–49.
7. Strate T, Mann O, Kleinhans H, et al. Microcirculatory function and tissue damage is improved after therapeutic injection of bovine hemoglobin in severe acute rodent pancreatitis. Pancreas 2005;30:254–0259.
8. Klar E, Schratt W, Foitzik T, Buhr H, Herfarth C, Messmer K. Impact of microcirculatory flow pattern changes on the development of acute edematous and necrotizing pancreatitis in rabbit pancreas. Dig Dis Sci 1994;39:2639–9 2644.
9. Forgács B, Eibl G, Faulhaber J, Kahrau S, Buhr H, Foitzik T. Effect of fluid resuscitation with and without endothelin A receptor blockade on hemoconcentration and organ function in experimental pancreatitis. Eur Surg Res 2000;32:162–2168.
10. de-Madaria E, Soler-Sala G, S ánchez-Paya, et al. Influence of fluid therapy on the prognosis of acute pancreatitis: a prospective cohort study. Am J Gastroenterol 2011;106:1843–1850.
11. Mao EQ, Fei J, Peng YB, Huang J, Tang YQ, Zhang SD. Rapid hemodilution is associated with increased sepsis and mortality among patients with severe acute pancreatitis. Chin Med J 2010;123:1639–11644.
12. Eckerwall G, Olin H, Andersson B, Andersson R. Fluid resuscitation and nutritional support during severe acute pancreatitis in the past: what have we learned and how can we do better? Clin Nutr 2006;25:497–5504.
13. Jakobs R, Adamek MU, von Bubnoff AC, Riemann JF. Buprenorphine or procaine for pain relief in acute pancreatitis. A prospective randomized study. Scand J Gastroenterol 2000;35:1319–41323.
14. Kahl S, Zimmermann S, Pross M, Schulz HU, Schmidt U, Malfertheiner P. Procaine hydrochloride fails to relieve pain in patients with acute pancreatitis. Digestion 2004;69:5–99.
15. Peiró AM, Martínez J, Martínez E, et al. Efficacy and tolerance of metamizole versus morphine for acute pancreatitis pain. Pancreatology 2008;8:25–:29.
16. Morimoto T, Noguchi Y, Sakai T, Shimbo T, Fukui T. Acute pancreatitis and the role of histamine-2 receptor antagonists: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials of cimetidine. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol 2002;14:679–686.
17. ESPEN Guidelines on Parenteral Nutrition: pancreas. Clin Nutr 2009;28:428-435.
18. Marik PE, Zaloga GP. Meta-analysis of parenteral nutrition versus enteral nutrition in patients with acute pancreatitis. BMJ 2004;328:1407–61412.
19. McClave SA, Greene LM, Snider HL, et al. Comparison of the safety of early enteral vs parenteral nutrition in mild acute pancreatitis. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr 1997;21:14–120.
20. Windsor AC, Kanwar S, Li AG, et al. Compared with parenteral nutrition, enteral feeding attenuates the acute phase response and improves disease severity in acute pancreatitis. Gut 1998;42:431–2435.
21. Kalfarentzos F, Kehagias J, Mead N, Kokkinis K, Gogos CA. Enteral nutrition is superior to parenteral nutrition in severe acute pancreatitis: results of a randomized prospective trial. Br J Surg 1997;84:1665–51669.
22. Oláh A, Pardavi G, Belágyi T, Nagy A, Issekutz A, Mohamed GE. Early nasojejunal feeding in acute pancreatitis is associated with a lower complication rate. Nutrition 2002;18:259–8262.
23. Abou-Assi S, Craig K, O’Keefe SJ. Hypocaloric jejunal feeding is better than total parenteral nutrition in acute pancreatitis: results of a randomized comparative study. Am J Gastroenterol 2002;97:2255–2262.
24. Gupta R, Patel K, Calder PC, Yaqoob P, Primrose JN, Johnson CD. A randomised clinical trial to assess the effect of total enteral and parenteral nutritional support on metabolic, inflammatory and oxidative markers in patients with predicted severe acute pancreatitis (APACHEII C 6). Pancreatology

Korean Pancreatobiliary Association <PAGE>37