patient with acute pancreatitis any prognostic value? Pancreatology 2001;1:224-229.
41. Brown A, Orav J, Banks PA. Hemoconcentration is an early marker for organ failure and necrotizing pancreatitis. Pancreas 2000;20:367-372.
42. Lankisch PG, Mahlke R, Blum T, et al. Hemoconcentration: an early marker of severe and/or necrotizing pancreatitis? A critical appraisal. Am J Gastroenterol 2001;96:2081-2085.
43. Appelros S, Petersson U, Toh S, Johnson C, Borgstrom A. Activation peptide of carboxypeptidase B and anionic trypsinogen as early predictors of the severity of acute pancreatitis. Br J Surg 2001;88:216-221.
44. Tenner S, Fernandez-del Castillo C, Warshaw A, et al. Urinary trypsinogen activation peptide (TAP) pre- dicts severity in patients with acute pancreatitis. Pancreatology 1997;21:105-110.
45. Neoptolemos JP, Kemppainen EA, Mayer JM, et al. Early prediction of severity in acute pancreatitis by urinary trypsinogen activation peptide: a multicentre study. Lancet 2000;355:1955-1960.
46. Rau B, Cebulla M, Uhl W, Schoenberg MH, Beger HG. The clinical value of human pancreas-specific protein procarboxypeptidase B as an indicator of necrosis in acute pancreatitis: comparison to CRP and LDH. Pancreas 1998;17:134-139.
47. Larvin M, Chalmers AG, McMahon MJ. Dynamic contrast enhanced computed tomography: a precise technique for identifying and localising pancreatic necrosis. BMJ 1990;300:1425-1428.
48. Buchler MW, Gloor B, Muller CA, Friess H, Seiler CA, Uhl W. Acute necrotizing pancreatitis: treatment strategy according to the status of infection. Ann Surg 2000;232:619-626.
49. Uhl W, Roggo A, Kirschstein T, et al. Influence of contrast-enhanced computed tomography on course and outcome in patients with acute pancreatitis. Pancreas 2002;24:191-197.
50. Isenmann R, Rau B, Beger HG. Bacterial infection and extent of necrosis are determinants of organ fail- ure inpatients with acute necrotizing pancreatitis. Br J Surg 1999;86:1020-1024.
51. Takeda K, Yokoe M, Takada T, et al. Assessment of severity of acute pancreatitis according to new prognostic factors and CT grading. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Sci 2010;17:37-44.
52. Vesentini S, Bassi C, Talamini G, Cavallini G, Campedelli A, Pederzoli P. Prospective comparison of C- reactive protein level, Ranson score and contrast-enhanced computed tomography in the prediction of septic complications of acute pancreatitis. Br J Surg 1993;80:755-757.
53. Kemppainen E, Sainio V, Haapiainen R, Kivisaari L, Kivilaakso E, Puolakkainen P. Early localization of ne- crosis by contrast-enhanced computed tomography can predict outcome in severe acute pancreatitis. Br J Surg 1996;83:924-929.
54. Clavien PA, Hauser H, Meyer P, Rohner A. Rapid-bolus contrast-enhanced dynamic computed tomogra- phy in acute pancreatitis: a prospective study. Br J Surg 1991;78:1452-1456.
55. Clavien PA, Hauser H, Meyer P, et al. Value of contrast-enhanced computerized tomography in the early diagnosis and prognosis of acute pancreatitis. A prospective study of 202 patients. Am J Surg 1988;155:457-466.
56. Rotman N, Chevret S, Pezet D, et al. Prognostic value of early computed tomographic scans in severe acute pancreatitis. French Association for Surgical Research. J Am Coll Surg 1994;179:538-544.
57. Balthazar EJ, Robinson DL, Megibow AJ, Ranson JH. Acute pancreatitis: value of CT in establishing prognosis. Radiology 1990;174:331-336.
58. Hirota M, Kimura Y, Ishiko T, Beppu T, Yamashita Y, Ogawa M. Visualization of the heterogeneous in- ternal structure of so-called “pancreatic necrosis” by magnetic resonance imaging in acute necrotizing pancreatitis. Pancreas 2002;25:63-67.
59. Ward J, Chalmers AG, Guthrie AJ, Larvin M, Robinson PJ. T2-weighted and dynamic enhanced MRI in acute pancreatitis: comparison with contrast enhanced CT. Clin Radiol 1997;52:109-114.
60. Lecesne R, Taourel P, Bret PM, Atri M, Reinhold C. Acute pancreatitis: interobserver agreement and cor- relation of CT and MR cholangiopancreatography with outcome. Radiology 1999;211:727-735.
61. Ranson JH, Rifkind KM, Roses DF, Fink SD, Eng K, Spencer FC. Prognostic signs and the role of opera-

<PAGE>28 대한췌담도학회