17. Talamini G, Bassi C, Falconi M, et al. Risk of death from acute pancreatitis - Role of early, simple “rou-tine” data. Int J Pancreatol 1996;19:15-24.
18. Malangoni MA, Martin AS. Outcome of severe acute pancreatitis. Am J Surg 2005;189:273-277.
19. Rahman SH, Ibrahim K, Larvin M, Kingsnorth A, McMahon MJ. Association of antioxidant en-zyme gene polymorphisms and glutathione status with severe acute pancreatitis. Gastroenterology 2004;126:1312-1322.
20. Blum T, Maisonneuve P, Lowenfels AB, Lankisch PG. Fatal outcome in acute pancreatitis: its occurrence and early prediction. Pancreatology 2001;1:237-241.
21. Chatzicostas C, Roussosmstaki M, Vlachonikolis IG, et al. Comparison of Ranson, APACHE II and APACHE III scoring systems in acute pancreatitis. Pancreas2002;25:331-335.
22. Modrau IS, Floyd AK, Thorlacius-Ussing O. The clinical value of procalcitonin in early assessment of acute pancreatitis. Am J Gastroenterol 2005;100:1593-1597.
23. Gullo L, Migliori M, Olah A, et al. Acute pancreatitis in five European countries: etiology and mortality. Pancreas 2002;24:223-227.
24. Kim JE, Hwang JH, Lee SH, et al. The clinical outcome of elderly patients with acute pancreatitis is not differentin spite of the different etiologies and severity. Arch Gerontol Geriatr 2012;54:256-260.
25. Funnell IC, Bornman PC, Weakley SP, Terblanche J, Marks IN. Obesity: an important prognostic factor in acute pancreatitis. Br J Surg 1993;80:484-486.
26. Martinez J, Sanchez-Paya J, Palazon JM, Aparicio JR, Pico A, Perez-Mateo M. Obesity: a prognostic fac-tor of severity in acute pancreatitis. Pancreas 1999;19:15-20.
27. Martinez J, Sanchez-Paya J, Palazon JM, Suazo-Barahona J, Robles-Diaz G, Perez-Mateo M. Is obesity a risk factor in acute pancreatitis? Ameta-analysis. Pancreatology 2004;4:42-48.
28. Heller SJ, Noordhoek E, Tenner SM, et al. Pleural effusionas a predictor of severity in acute pancreatitis. Pancreas 1997;15:222-225.
29. Talamini G, Uomo G, Pezzilli R, et al. Serum creatinineand chest radiographs in the early assessment of acute pancreatitis. Am J Surg 1999;177:7-14.
30. Lankisch PG, Droge M, Becher R. Pulmonary infiltrations. Sign of severe acute pancreatitis. Pancreatol-ogy 1996;19:113-115.
31. Viedma JA, Perez-Mateo M, Agullo J, Dominguez JE, Carballo F. Inflammatory response in the early prediction of severity of human acute pancreatitis. Gut1994;35:822-827.
32. Pezzilli R, Billi P, Miniero R, et al. Serum interleukin-6, interleukin-8, and beta 2-microglobulin in early assessment of severity of acute pancreatitis. Comparison with serum C-reactive protein. Dig Dis Sci 1995;40:2341-2348.
33. Uchikov PA, Sirakova IP, Murdjeva MA, Uchikov AP. Changes in plasma levels of acute phase proteins inpancreatitis. Folia med(Plovdiv) 2000;42:23-30.
34. Toouli J, Brooke-Smith M, Bassi C, et al. Guidelines for the management of acute pancreatitis. J Gastro-enterol Hepatol 2002;17(suppl);S15-39.
35. Dervenis C, Johnson CD, Bassi C, et al. Diagnosis, objective assessment of severity, and management of acute pancreatitis. Santorini consensus conference. Pancreatology 1999;25:195-210.
36. UK guidelines for the management of acute pancreatitis. Gut 2005;54(Suppl 3);iii1-iii9.
37. Wu BU, Bakker OJ, Papachristou GI, et al. Blood urea nitrogen in the early assessment of acute pancre-atitis: an international validation study. Arch Intern Med 2011;171:669-676.
38. Talamini G, Bassi C, Falconi M, et al. Risk of death from acute pancreatitis. Role of early, simple “routine” data. Pancreatology 1996;19:15-24.
39. Muddana V, Whitcomb DC, Khalid A, Slivka A, Papachristou GI. Elevated serum creatinine as a marker of pancreatic necrosis in acute pancreatitis. Am J Gastroenterol 2009;104:164-170.
40. Lankisch PG, Blum T, Bruns A, et al. Has blood glucose level measured on admission to hospital in a

Korean Pancreatobiliary Association 27