# REFERENCES
1. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE, Kunz R, Falck-Ytter Y, Alonso-Coello P, et al. GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2008;336:924-926.
2. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Kunz R, Vist GE, Falck-Ytter Y, Schunemann HJ. What is "quality of evidence" and why is it important to clinicians? BMJ 2008;336:995-998.
3. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Kunz R, Falck-Ytter Y, Vist GE, Liberati A, et al. Going from evidence to recommendations. BMJ 2008;336:1049-1051.
4. Schünemann HJ, Oxman AD, Brozek J, Glasziou P, Jaeschke R, Vist GE, et al. Grading quality of evidence and strength of recommendations for diagnostic tests and strategies. BMJ 2008;336:1106-1110.
5. Brouwers MC, Kho ME, Browman GP, Burgers JS, Cluzeau F, Feder G, et al. Development of the AGREE II, part 1: performance, usefulness and areas for improvement. CMAJ 2010;182:1045-1052.
6. Brouwers MC, Kho ME, Browman GP, Burgers JS, Cluzeau F, Feder G, et al. Development of the AGREE II, part 2: assessment of validity of items and tools to support application. CMAJ 2010;182:E472- E478.
7. Song IS, Kim CY. Seasonal and annual variations on occurrence of HBsAg and acquisition of anti-HBs in Korea. Korean J Intern Med 1979;22:1007-1015.
8. Ahn YO. A review study on descriptive epidemiology of HBs antigen positivity in Korea. Korean J Epidemiol 1982;4:35-45.
9. Sim JG, Seo JK, Suh SJ. Prevalence and its changes of hepatitis B viral markers from 1988 to 1993 in Korean children. J Korean Pediatr Soc 1995;38:1535-1539.
10. Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 2006 Disease Control White Paper. Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2007;144.
11. Ministry of Helalth & Welfare, Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The Third Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES III), 2005: Health Examination. Ministry of Helalth & Welfare, 2006;68.
12. Chae HB, Kim JH, Kim JK, Yim HJ. Current status of liver diseases in Korea: hepatitis B. Korean J Hepatol 2009;15(Suppl 6):S13- S 24.
13. Cheon JH, Park JW, Park KW, Kim YI, Kim SH, Lee WJ, et al. The clinical report of 1,078 cases of hepatocellular carcinomas: National Cancer Center experience. Korean J Hepatol 2004;10:288-297.
14. Kim SR, Kudo M, Hino O, Han KH, Chung YH, Lee HS. Epidemiology of hepatocellular carcinoma in Japan and Korea. A review. Oncology 2008;75(Suppl 1):13-16.
15. Bae SH, Yoon SK, Jang JW, Kim CW, Nam SW, Choi JY. Hepatitis B virus genotype C prevails among chronic carriers of the virus in Korea. J Korean Med Sci 2005;20:816-820.
16. Kim H, Jee YM, Song BC, Shin JW, Yang SH, Mun HS. Molecular epidemiology of hepatitis B virus (HBV) genotypes and serotypes in patients with chronic HBV infection in Korea. Intervirology 2007;50:52-57.
17. Lee JM, Ahn SH, Chang HY, Shin JE, Kim DY, Sim MK, et al. Reappraisal of HBV genotypes and clinical significance in Koreans using MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. Korean J Hepatol 2004;10:260-270.
18. Lok AS, McMahon BJ. Chronic hepatitis B. Hepatology 2007;45:507-539.
19. Hoofnagle JH, Doo E, Liang TJ, Fleischer R, Lok AS. Management of hepatitis B: summary of a clinical research workshop. Hepatology 2007;45:1056-1075.
20. Lok AS, Lai CL. A longitudinal follow-up of asymptomatic hepatitis B surface antigen-positive Chinese children. Hepatology 1988;8:1130-1133.
21. Chang MH, Hsu HY, Hsu HC, Ni YH, Chen JS, Chen DS. The significance of spontaneous hepatitis B e antigen seroconversion in childhood: with special emphasis on the clearance of hepatitis B e antigen before 3 years of age.

<PAGE>97