311. Marcellin P, Bonino F, Lau GK, Farci P, Yurdaydin C, Piratvisuth T, et al. Sustained response of hepatitis B e antigen-negative patients 3 years after treatment with peginterferon alpha-2a. Gastroenterology 2009;136:2169-2179.
312. Buster EH, Hansen BE, Buti M, Delwaide J, Niederau C, Michielsen PP, et al. Peginterferon alpha-2b is safe and effective in HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B patients with advanced fibrosis. Hepatology 2007;46:388-394.
313. Buster EH, Hansen BE, Lau GK, Piratvisuth T, Zeuzem S, Steyerberg EW, et al. Factors that predict response of patients with hepatitis B e antigen-positive chronic hepatitis B to peginterferon-alfa. Gastroenterology 2009;137:2002-2009.
314. Flink HJ, van Zonneveld M, Hansen BE, de Man RA, Schalm SW, Janssen HL. Treatment with Peg-interferon alpha-2b for HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B: HBsAg loss is associated with HBV genotype. Am J Gastroenterol 2006;101:297-303.
315. Kau A, Vermehren J, Sarrazin C. Treatment predictors of a sustained virologic response in hepatitis B and C. J Hepatol 2008;49:634-651.
316. Liaw YF, Xie Q, Han KH, Gane EJ, Piratvisuth T, McCloud PI, et al. Shorter duration and lower dose of peginterferon alfa-2a therapy results in inferior HBeAg seroconversion rates compared with the duration and dose of 48 weeks and 180 ug: Neptune study. [Abstract]. Hepatology 2010;52(Suppl 1):429A.
317. Hoofnagle JH, Peters M, Mullen KD, Jones DB, Rustgi V, Di Bisceglie A, et al. Randomized, controlled trial of recombinant human alpha-interferon in patients with chronic hepatitis B. Gastroenterology 1988;95:1318-1325.
318. Perrillo RP, Schiff ER, Davis GL, Bodenheimer HC Jr, Lindsay K, Payne J, et al. A randomized, controlled trial of interferon alfa-2b alone and after prednisone withdrawal for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. The Hepatitis Interventional Therapy Group. N Engl J Med 1990;323:295-301.
319. Wong DK, Cheung AM, O’Rourke K, Naylor CD, Detsky AS, Heathcote J. Effect of alpha-interferon treatment in patients with hepatitis B e antigen-positive chronic hepatitis B. A meta-analysis. Ann Intern Med 1993;119:312-323.
320. Consensus statements on the prevention and management of hepatitis B and hepatitis C in the Asia-Pacific region. Core Working Party for Asia-Pacific Consensus on Hepatitis B and C. J Gastroenterol Hepatol 2000;15:825-841.
321. Lok AS, McMahon BJ. Chronic hepatitis B. Hepatology 2001;34:1225-1241.
322. Lok AS, Heathcote EJ, Hoofnagle JH. Management of hepatitis B: 2000--summary of a workshop. Gastroenterology 2001;120:1828-1853.
323. Rockey DC, Caldwell SH, Goodman ZD, Nelson RC, Smith AD. Liver biopsy. Hepatology 2009;49:1017-1044.
324. European Association For The Study Of The Liver. EASL Clinical Practice Guidelines: management of chronic hepatitis B. J Hepatol 2009;50:227-242.
325. Fattovich G, Giustina G, Realdi G, Corrocher R, Schalm SW. Long-term outcome of hepatitis B e antigen-positive patients with compensated cirrhosis treated with interferon alfa. European Concerted Action on Viral Hepatitis (EUROHEP). Hepatology 1997;26:1338-1342.
326. Peters M, Davis GL, Dooley JS, Hoofnagle JH. The interferon system in acute and chronic viral hepatitis. Prog Liver Dis 1986;8:453-467.
327. Perrillo R, Tamburro C, Regenstein F, Balart L, Bodenheimer H, Silva M, et al. Low-dose, titratable interferon alfa in decompensated liver disease caused by chronic infection with hepatitis B virus. Gastroenterology 1995;109:908-916.
328. Villeneuve JP, Condreay LD, Willems B, Pomier-Layrargues G, Fenyves D, Bilodeau M, et al. Lamivudine treatment for decompensated cirrhosis resulting from chronic hepatitis B. Hepatology 2000;31:207-210.
329. Chien RN, Lin CH, Liaw YF. The effect of lamivudine therapy in hepatic decompensation during acute

<PAGE>113