24. 뇌졸중 환자의 마비측 어깨의 관절 구축, 및 합병증을 예방하기 위해서 적절한 관절 자세를 유지하는 것이 고려될 수 있다. GPP
    - (AUS) For stroke survivors at risk of or who have developed contractures and are undergoing comprehensive rehabilitation, the routine use of splints or prolonged positioning of muscles in a lengthened position is NOT recommended. B
    - (AUS)For people who have developed a subluxed shoulder, management may include firm support devices to prevent further subluxation. C
    - (SIGN) Splinting is not recommended for improving upper limb function. B
    - (SIGN) Patients with little or no active shoulder muscle activity should be considered for subluxation prevention strategies. GPP
    - (SIGN) There is insufficient evidence to support or refute using any sling or supportive. I
    - (AUS) For people with severe weakness who are at risk of developing shoulder pain, management may include: shoulder strapping B
    - (CAN) Spasticity and contractures should be treated or prevented by antispastic pattern positioning, range-of-motion exercises, stretching and/or splinting C (Early & Late)
    - (CAN) Joint protection strategies include: Positioning and supporting the limb to minimize B
    - (CAN) Joint protection strategies include: Protection and support for the limb to minimize pain during functional mobility tasks using slings, pocket, or by therapist and during wheelchair use by using hemi tray or arm troughs) C
    - (SIGN) Prevention of post-stroke shoulder pain - Insufficient evidence / shoulder strapping I
    - (SIGN) Prevention of post-stroke shoulder pain - Careful positioning and handling of the affected shoulder and upper limb in the early phase is recommended. GPP
    - (SIGN) post-stroke shoulder pain-Shoulder strapping to treat post-stroke shoulder pain is not recommended. A
    - (SIGN) post-stroke shoulder pain-A systematic review found insufficient evidence to conclude whether or not slings and wheelchair attachments decrease shoulder pain post I

25. 뇌졸중 환자의 마비측 어깨의 관절에 오버 헤드 풀리의 사용은 시행되어서는 안 된다. B/1+
    - (AUS) Overhead pulley exercise should NOT be used routinely to maintain range of motion of the shoulder. C
    - (CAN) Overhead pulleys should not be used A

26. 뇌졸중 환자의 상지 운동 기능 회복을 위해 거울 치료를 강력히 권고한다. A/1+

<PAGE>141