behavioral outcome in the postacute stages of adult traumatic brain injury: a meta-analysis. *Journal of clinical psychopharmacology*;31:745-757
268) Katz N, Hartman-Maeir A, Ring H, Soroker N. Functional disability and rehabilitation outcome in right hemisphere damaged patients with and without unilateral spatial neglect. *Arch Phys Med Rehabil*. 1999;80:379-384
269) Massironi M, Antonucci G, Pizzamiglio L, Vitale MV, Zoccolotti P. The Wundt-Jastrow illusion in the study of spatial hemi-inattention. *Neuropsychologia*. 1988;26:161-166
270) Sunderland A, Wade DT, Langton Hewer R. The natural history of visual neglect after stroke. Indications from two methods of assessment. *Int Disabil Stud*. 1987;9:55-59
271) Bowen A, McKenna K, Tallis RC. Reasons for variability in the reported rate of occurrence of unilateral spatial neglect after stroke. *Stroke*. 1999;30:1196-1202
272) Barer DH. The influence of visual and tactile inattention on predictions for recovery from acute stroke. *Q J Med*. 1990;74:21-32
273) Bernspang B, Asplund K, Eriksson S, Fugl-Meyer AR. Motor and perceptual impairments in acute stroke patients: effects on self-care ability. *Stroke*. 1987;18:1081-1086
274) Neistadt ME. The relationship between constructional and meal preparation skills. *Arch Phys Med Rehabil*. 1993;74:144-148
275) Ting DS, Pollock A, Dutton GN, Doubal FN, Thompson M, Dhillon B. Visual neglect following stroke: current concepts and future focus. *Surv Ophthalmol*. 2011;56:114-134
276) Rengachary J, d'Avossa G, Sapir A, Shulman GL, Corbetta M. Is the posner reaction time test more accurate than clinical tests in detecting left neglect in acute and chronic stroke? *Arch Phys Med Rehabil*. 2009;90:2081-2088
277) Seki R, Ishiai S, Seki K, Okada T. Leftward deviation of eyes in human face drawing: a new diagnostic measure for left unilateral spatial neglect. *J Neurol Sci*. 2010;297:66-70
278) Eschenbeck P, Vossel S, Weiss PH, Saliger J, Karbe H, Fink GR. Testing for neglect in right-hemispheric stroke patients using a new assessment battery based upon standardized activities of daily living (ADL). *Neuropsychologia*. 2010;48:3488-3496
279) Fordell H, Bodin K, Bucht G, Malm J. A virtual reality test battery for assessment and screening of spatial neglect. *Acta Neurol Scand*. 2011;123:167-174
280) Kim DY, Ku J, Chang WH, Park TH, Lim JY, Han K, Kim IY, Kim SI. Assessment of post-stroke extrapersonal neglect using a three-dimensional immersive virtual street crossing program. *Acta Neurol Scand*. 2010;121:171-177
281) Rohling ML, Faust ME, Beverly B, Demakis G. Effectiveness of cognitive rehabilitation following acquired brain injury: a meta-analytic re-examination of Cicerone et al.'s (2000, 2005) systematic reviews. *Neuropsychology*. 2009;23:20-39
282) Welfringer A, Leifert-Fiebach G, Babinsky R, Brandt T. Visuomotor imagery as a new tool in the rehabilitation of neglect: a randomised controlled study of feasibility and efficacy. *Disabil Rehabil*. 2011;33:2033-2043
<PAGE>116