327) Nishiyama Y, Abe A, Ueda M, Katsura K, Katayama Y. Nicergoline Increases Serum Substance P Levels in Patients with an Ischaemic Stroke. *Cerebrovascular diseases*. 2010;29:194-198
328) Cuesy P, Sotomayor P, Pina J. Reduction in the incidence of poststroke nosocomial pneumonia by using the" turn-mob" program. *Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases: the official journal of National Stroke Association*. 2010;19:23
329) Landi F, Onder G, Cesari M, Zamboni V, Russo A, Barillaro C, Bernabei R. Functional decline in frail community-dwelling stroke patients. *Eur J Neurol*. 2006;13:17-23
330) Reddy M, Gill S, Rochon PA. Preventing pressure ulcers: a systematic review. *JAMA (Chicago, Ill.)*. 2006;296:974-984
331) Carda S, Cisari C, Invernizzi M, Bevilacqua M. Osteoporosis after stroke: a review of the causes and potential treatments. *Cerebrovascular diseases*. 2009;28:191-200
332) Batchelor F, Hill K, Mackintosh S, Said C. What works in falls prevention after stroke? A systematic review and meta-analysis. *Stroke*. 2010;41:1715-1722
333) Batchelor FA, Hill KD, Mackintosh SF, Said CM, Whitehead CH. Effects of a multi-factorial falls prevention program for people with stroke returning home after rehabilitation: a randomized controlled trial. *Archives of physical medicine and rehabilitation*. 2012
334) Dean CM, Rissel C, Sherrington C, Sharkey M, Cumming RG, Lord SR, Barker RN, Kirkham C, O'Rourke S. Exercise to Enhance Mobility and Prevent Falls After Stroke: The Community Stroke Club Randomized Trial. *Neurorehabilitation and neural repair*. 2012
335) Borschmann K, Pang MYC, Bernhardt J, Iuliano-Burns S. Stepping towards prevention of bone loss after stroke: a systematic review of the skeletal effects of physical activity after stroke. *International Journal of Stroke*. 2012
336) Koyuncu E, Nakipoglu-Yüzer GF, Dogan A, Özgirgin N. The effectiveness of functional electrical stimulation for the treatment of shoulder subluxation and shoulder pain in hemiplegic patients: A randomized controlled trial. *Disability & Rehabilitation*. 2010;32:560-566
337) Hartwig M, Gelbrich G, Griewing B. Functional orthosis in shoulder joint subluxation after ischaemic brain stroke to avoid post-hemiplegic shoulder-hand syndrome: a randomized clinical trial. *Clinical rehabilitation*. 2012;26:807-816
338) Siniscalchi A, Gallelli L, De Sarro G, Malferrari G, Santangelo E. Antiepileptic drugs for central post-stroke pain management. *Pharmacological Research*. 2011
339) Klit H, Finnerup NB, Jensen TS. Central post-stroke pain: clinical characteristics, pathophysiology, and management. *The Lancet Neurology*. 2009;8:857-868
340) Kumar B, Kalita J, Kumar G, Misra UK. Central poststroke pain: a review of pathophysiology and treatment. *Anesthesia & Analgesia*. 2009;108:1645-1657
341) Kim JS, Bashford G, Murphy TK, Martin A, Dror V, Cheung R. Safety and efficacy of

<PAGE>120