(USA) Consider using acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs), specifically galantamine, donepezil, and rivastigmine, in patients with vascular dementia or vascular cognitive impairment in the doses and frequency used for Alzheimer’s disease.Consider using the NMDA receptor inhibitor memantine (Namenda) for patients with vascular dementia (VaD) or vascular cognitive impairment (VCI). B
(CAN) There is fair evidence of small magnitude benefits for donepezil in cognitive and global outcomes, with less robust benefits on functional measures. Donepezil can be considered a treatment option for vascular dementia. B

6 중등도 및 중증 혈관성 인지 장애 환자에서 인지 기능의 향상에 대해 메만틴 투여는 효과가 있다. B/1+
(USA) Consider using acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs), specifically galantamine, donepezil, and rivastigmine, in patients with vascular dementia or vascular cognitive impairment in the doses and frequency used for Alzheimer’s disease.Consider using the NMDA receptor inhibitor memantine (Namenda) for patients with vascular dementia (VaD) or vascular cognitive impairment (VCI). B
(AUS) Targeted occupational therapy programs can be used to increase participation in leisure activities B/1+

## 2-7. 시공간 무시의 평가와 치료 B/2++
1 뇌졸중 환자에서 시공간 무시가 임상적으로 의심되면, 표준화된 평가를 시행해야 한다.
    (AUS) Any patient with suspected or actual neglect or impairment of spatial awareness should have a full assessment using validated assessment tools. C
    (SIGN) Patients with visuospatial neglect should be assessed. GPP
2 뇌졸중 후 시공간 무시가 있는 환자는 다음과 같은 다양한 방법으로 치료를 시행할 것을 강력히 권고한다. A/1++
    (1) 시각 탐색 훈련(visual scanning), 프리즘 적응(prism adaptation) A/1++
        (USA) Recommend cognitive rehabilitation for patients with unilateral spatial neglect such as cueing, scanning, limb activation, aids and environmental adaptations. B
        (AUS) Patients with unilateral neglect can be trialled with one or more of the following interventions: visual scanning training in addition to sensory stimulation, prism adaptation. C
    (2) 안대, 시각 운동 상상 훈련(visuomotor imagery)
        (USA) Recommend cognitive rehabilitation for patients with unilateral spatial neglect such as cueing, scanning, limb activation, aids and environmental adaptations. B
        B/1+
<PAGE>154