207) Hamidon BB, Abdullah SA, Zawawi MF, Sukumar N, Aminuddin A, Raymond AA. A prospective comparison of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy and nasogastric tube feeding in patients with acute dysphagic stroke. *The Medical journal of Malaysia*. 2006;61:59-66
208) Finestone HM, Foley NC, Woodbury MG, Greene Finestone L. Quantifying fluid intake in dysphagic stroke patients: a preliminary comparison of oral and nonoral strategies. *Archives of physical medicine and rehabilitation*. 2001;82:1744-1746
209) Gomes Ca Jr Fau - Lustosa SAS, Lustosa Sa Fau - Matos D, Matos D Fau - Andriolo RB, Andriolo Rb Fau - Waisberg DR, Waisberg Dr Fau - Waisberg J, Waisberg J. Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy versus nasogastric tube feeding for adults with swallowing disturbances
210) Thomas LH, Cross S, Barrett J, French B, Leathley M, Sutton CJ, Watkins C. Treatment of urinary incontinence after stroke in adults. *Cochrane Database Syst Rev*. 2008:CD004462
211) Wallace SA, Roe B, Williams K, Palmer M. Bladder training for urinary incontinence in adults. *Cochrane Database Syst Rev*. 2004:CD001308
212) Gordon C, Weller C. A continence pathway for acute stroke care. *Nurs Times*. 2006;102:57-58
213) Eustice S, Roe B, Paterson J. Prompted voiding for the management of urinary incontinence in adults. *Cochrane Database Syst Rev*. 2000:CD002113
214) OSRWG M. VA/DoD CLINICAL PRACTICE GUIDELINE FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF STROKE REHABILITATION. *International Journal of Stroke*. 2010; : 1-152
215) Khorsandi M, Ginsberg PC, Harkaway RC. Reassessing the role of urodynamics after cerebrovascular accident - Males versus females. *Urologia Internationalis*. 1998;61:142-146
216) Nelson LA. The role of biofeedback in stroke rehabilitation: past and future directions. *Top Stroke Rehabil*. 2007;14:59-66
217) Dumoulin C, Korner-Bitensky N, Tannenbaum C. Urinary incontinence after stroke: does rehabilitation make a difference? A systematic review of the effectiveness of behavioral therapy. *Top Stroke Rehabil*. 2005;12:66-76
218) Tibaek S, Gard G, Jensen R. Is there a long-lasting effect of pelvic floor muscle training in women with urinary incontinence after ischemic stroke? *International Urogynecology Journal*. 2007;18:281-287
219) Tibaek S, Gard G, Jensen R. Pelvic floor muscle training is effective in women with urinary incontinence after stroke: A randomised, controlled and blinded study. *Neurourol Urodyn*. 2005;24:348-357
220) Berghmans LC, Hendriks HJ, De Bie RA, van Waalwijk van Doorn ES, Bo K, van Kerrebroeck PE. Conservative treatment of urge urinary incontinence in women: a systematic review of randomized clinical trials. *Bju International*. 2000;85:254-263
221) Sabanathan K, Castleden CM, Mitchell CJ. The problem of bacteriuria with indwelling

<PAGE>112