(USA) Recommend assessment of bladder function in acute stroke patients, as indicated. Assessment should include the following: Assessment of urinary retention through the use of a bladder scanner or an in-and-out catheterization C
Measurement of urinary frequency, volume, and control Assessment for the presence of (CAN) All stroke patients should be screened for urinary incontinence and retention (with or without overflow), fecal incontinence, and constipation (time and frequency) The use of a portable ultrasound is recommended as the preferred noninvasive painless method for assessing post-void residual. Possible contributing factors surrounding continence management should be assessed, including medications, nutrition, diet, mobility, activity, cognition, environment and communication. C
(AUS) All stroke survivors with suspected urinary continence difficulties should be assessed by trained personnel using a structured functional assessment. A probable bladder ultrasound scan should be used to assist in diagnosis and management of urinary B
(SIGN) All stroke patients should be assessed, investigated and treated for urinary incontinence. The presence or absence of incontinence of urine should be documented for all patients after a stroke D

3 뇌졸중 후 배변 조절 장애가 있는 경우 항문과 직장의 생리학적 검사를 통한 원인을 찾는 것이 시행되어야 한다. B/2+
(AUS) Stroke survivors with confirmed continence difficulties should have a continence management plan formulated, documented, implemented and monitored. C

4 배뇨 장애가 있는 환자에서 다양한 배뇨훈련 프로그램의 적용이 시행되어야 한다. B/2+
(USA) Recommend considering an individualized bladder training program be developed and implemented for patients who are incontinent of urine. C
(USA) Consider an individualized bladder training program (such as pelvic floor muscle training in women) be developed and implemented for patients who are incontinent of urine. B
(CAN) A bladder-training program should be implemented in patients who are of urine [Evidence level C], including timed and prompted toileting on a consistent schedule [Evidence Level B].
(AUS) A community continence management plan should be developed with the stroke survivor and family/carer prior to discharge and should include information on accessing continence resources and appropriate review in the community. GPP

<PAGE>148