## 라 뇌졸중 후 통증
10. 뇌졸중 환자의 통증에 대해 정확한 평가가 필요하다. C/2+
    *   (USA)Recommend pain assessment using the 0 to 10 scale. C
    *   (USA)Recommend a pain management plan that includes assessment of the following: likely etiology (i.e., musculoskeletal and neuropathic), pain location, quality, quantity, duration, intensity, and aggravating and relieving factors. C
    *   (USA)Recommend that the clinician tailor the pain treatment to the type of pain.
    *   (CAN) The presence of pain and any exacerbating factors should be identified early and treated appropriately C
11. 뇌졸중 후 통증에 다음과 같은 약물치료는 효과가 있다.
    1.  삼환계 항우울제 (Amitriptyline 등) B/1+
    2.  항전간제 (Gabapentin, Lamotrigine, Carbamazepine, Pregabalin 등) B/1+
    *   (AUS) People with stroke found to have unresolved CPSP should receive a trial of tricyclic antidepressants e.g. amitriptyline first, followed by other tricyclic agents or venlafaxine, anticonvulsants e.g. carbamazepine B/C
    *   (USA) Recommend balancing the benefits of pain control with possible adverse effects of medications on an individual’s ability to participate in and benefit from rehabilitation. I
    *   (USA) Recommend use of lower doses of centrally acting analgesics, which may cause confusion and deterioration of cognitive performance and interfere with the rehabilitation. C
    *   (CAN) Oral corticosteroids in tapering doses may be used to reduce swelling and pain due to this condition B
    *   (SIGN) In patients with central post-stroke pain unresponsive to standard treatment, and where clinician and patient are aware of potential side effects, amitriptyline (titrated to a dose of 75 mg) may be considered. 1+/B
    *   (SIGN) If amitriptyline is ineffective, or contraindicated, lamotrigine or carbamazepine are alternatives although the high incidence of side effects should be recognised. 1+/B
12. 뇌졸중 후 통증 조절을 위하여 약물치료 이외에도 행동인지치료, 생체되먹임, 마사지, 물리 치료와 같은 비약물적 치료가 추천된다. C/2+
    *   (USA) When practical, utilize a behavioral health provider to address psychological aspects of pain and to improve adherence to the pain treatment plan. C
    *   (USA) When appropriate, recommend use of non-pharmacologic modalities for pain control such as biofeedback, massage, imaging therapy, and physical therapy. C
<PAGE>160