    *   (USA) Attention to a history of heparin induced thrombocytopenia will affect treatment choice. A platelet count obtained 7-10 days after initiation of heparin therapy should be B
    *   (USA) Consider IVCF is patients at risk for PE, in whom anticoagulation is contraindicated. B
    *   (CAN) Low molecular weight heparin should be considered for patients with acute ischemic stroke at high risk of venous thromboembolism; or unfractionated heparin for patients with renal failure C
    *   (CAN) There is insufficient evidence on the safety and efficacy of anticoagulant deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis after intracerebral hemorrhage C
    *   (CAN) Antithrombotics and anticoagulants should be avoided for at least 48 hours after intracerebral hemorrhage A
    *   (CAN) Patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage should receive venous thromboembolism prophylaxis A
19. 압박 스타킹(compressive stocking) 단독요법의 심부정맥 혈전증과 폐색전증의 예방 효과는 뚜렷하지 않다. A/1+
    *   (AUS) Thigh-length antithrombotic stockings are NOT recommended for the prevention of DVT/PE post-stroke. B
    *   (USA) Patients with ICH should have intermittent pneumatic compression for prevention of venous thromboembolism in addition to elastic stockings B
    *   (USA) Consider the use of graduated compression stockings or an intermittent pneumatic compression device as an adjunct to heparin for non-ambulatory patients, or as an alternative to heparin for patients in whom anticoagulation is contraindicated. A
    *   (CAN) The use of anti-embolism stockings alone for post-stroke venous thrombo-embolism prophylaxis is not recommended A
    *   (SIGN) Above-knee graduated elastic compression stockings to reduce the risk of deep vein thrombosis after acute stroke are not recommended. A

### 바 관절 구축
20. 뇌졸중 후 관절 구축 예방을 위해 올바른 자세유지가 고려되어야 한다. GPP
<PAGE>163