13. 뇌졸중 후 어깨 관절의 통증 예방을 위하여 마비측 어깨 관절의 지지와 적절한 자세 유지가 시행되어야 한다. B/2++
    *   (AUS) For people with severe weakness who are at risk of developing shoulder pain, management may include: shoulder strapping / interventions to educate staff, carers, and people with stroke about preventing trauma B/GPP
    *   (CAN) Positioning and supporting the limb to minimize pain B
    *   (CAN) Protection and support for the limb to minimize pain during functional mobility tasks using slings, pocket, or by therapist and during wheelchair use by using hemi tray or arm C
    *   (CAN) The shoulder should not be passively moved beyond 90 degrees of flexion and abduction unless the scapula is upwardly rotated and the humerus is laterally rotated A
    *   (CAN) Educate staff and caregivers about correct handling of the hemiplegic arm A
    *   (CAN) Overhead pulleys should not be used A
    *   (SIGN) Careful positioning and handling of the affected shoulder and upper limb in the early phase is recommended. 1++
14. 마비측 어깨 관절의 통증 치료에는 물리치료, 진통제 등 약물치료, 관절강 내 스테로이드 주사, 보툴리눔 독소 주사 등 근거에 기반한 치료법을 적용하는 것이 추천된다. C/2+
    *   (AUS) For people who develop shoulder pain, management should be based on evidence-based interventions for acute musculoskeletal pain GPP
    *   (CAN) Treat shoulder pain and limitations in range of motion through gentle stretching and mobilization techniques focusing especially on external rotation and abduction B
    *   (CAN) Consider use of acetaminophen or other analgesics for pain relief C
    *   (CAN) Consider the use of botulinum toxin injections into subscapularis and pectoralis muscles for individual with hemiplegic shoulder pain C
    *   (SIGN) Intra-articular steroids may be appropriate if shoulder pain is due to inflammatory conditions (eg inflammatory arthritis, adhesive capsulitis, etc). Limited external rotation due to adhesive capsulitis may be difficult to distinguish from that that due to spasticity. In such cases specialist opinion is advised. 1++
마 심부정맥 혈전증
15. 뇌졸중 후 심부정맥 혈전증의 예방을 위해 조기 재활을 고려한다. GPP
    *   (USA) Recommend all patients be mobilized, as soon as possible. GPP
    *   (AUS) Early mobilization and adequate hydration should be encouraged in all acute stroke patients to help prevent DVT and PE. GPP
<PAGE>161