133) Hartwig M, Gelbrich G, Griewing B. Functional orthosis in shoulder joint subluxation after ischaemic brain stroke to avoid post-hemiplegic shoulder-hand syndrome: a randomized clinical trial. *Clin Rehabil*. 2012;26:807-816
134) Tyson SF, Kent RM. Orthotic devices after stroke and other non-progressive brain lesions. *Cochrane Database Syst Rev*. 2009:CD003694
135) Tyson SF, Kent RM. The effect of upper limb orthotics after stroke: a systematic review. *NeuroRehabilitation*. 2011;28:29-36
136) Hoffman HB, Blakey GL. New design of dynamic orthoses for neurological conditions. *NeuroRehabilitation*. 2011;28:55-61
137) Ada L, Goddard E, McCully J, Stavrinos T, Bampton J. Thirty minutes of positioning reduces the development of shoulder external rotation contracture after stroke: a randomized controlled trial. *Arch Phys Med Rehabil*. 2005;86:230-234
138) de Jong LD, Nieuwboer A, Aufdemkampe G. Contracture preventive positioning of the hemiplegic arm in subacute stroke patients: a pilot randomized controlled trial. *Clin Rehabil*. 2006;20:656-667
139) Gustafsson L, McKenna K. A programme of static positional stretches does not reduce hemiplegic shoulder pain or maintain shoulder range of motion--a randomized controlled trial. *Clin Rehabil*. 2006;20:277-286
140) Turton AJ, Britton E. A pilot randomized controlled trial of a daily muscle stretch regime to prevent contractures in the arm after stroke. *Clin Rehabil*. 2005;19:600-612
141) Borisova Y, Bohannon RW. Positioning to prevent or reduce shoulder range of motion impairments after stroke: a meta-analysis. *Clin Rehabil*. 2009;23:681-686
142) Katalinic OM, Harvey LA, Herbert RD, Moseley AM, Lannin NA, Schurr K. Stretch for the treatment and prevention of contractures. *Cochrane Database Syst Rev*. 2010:CD007455
143) Katalinic OM, Harvey LA, Herbert RD. Effectiveness of stretch for the treatment and prevention of contractures in people with neurological conditions: a systematic review. *Phys Ther*. 2011;91:11-24
144) Lai JM, Francisco GE, Willis FB. Dynamic splinting after treatment with botulinum toxin type-A: a randomized controlled pilot study. *Adv Ther*. 2009;26:241-248
145) Lannin NA, Horsley SA, Herbert R, McCluskey A, Cusick A. Splinting the hand in the functional position after brain impairment: a randomized, controlled trial. *Arch Phys Med Rehabil*. 2003;84:297-302
146) Lannin NA, Cusick A, McCluskey A, Herbert RD. Effects of splinting on wrist contracture after stroke: a randomized controlled trial. *Stroke*. 2007;38:111-116
147) Weppler C. On "Effectiveness of stretch for the treatment and prevention of contractures..." Katalinic OM, Harvey LA, Herbert RD. *Phys Ther*. 2011;91:11-24. *Phys Ther*. 2011;91:590-595; author reply 595-596

<PAGE>107