(USA) Consider using treadmill training in conjunction with other task specific practice and exercise training techniques in individuals with gait impairments post stroke without known cardiac risks for treadmill exercise. B
(Can) Consider Treadmill based Gait training (without body support) to enhance walking speed, endurance, and walking distance in persons post stroke. Treadmill training is suggested for 30 min, five days per week for two to three weeks. Early-C, Late B

14. 독립적 보행이 불가능한 뇌졸중 환자에게 보행속도, 지구력 개선을 위해 부분체중부하 답차 훈련이 강력히 권고된다. A/1++
    (USA) Consider the use of partial bodyweight support for treadmill training (partial BWSTT) (up to 40% of individuals' weight) in conjunction with other task specific and exercise training techniques for individuals with gait impairments post stroke without known cardiac risks for treadmill exercise. B
    (SIGN) Patients with co-existing pathologies affecting cardiovascular fitness may benefit from training using a treadmilll that offers partial body weight support.
    (Can)There is no conclusive evidence that body weight supported treadmill training (BWSTT) is superior to over ground training to enhance walking abilities. BWSTT could be considered when other strategies for walking practice are unsuccessful in those patients with low ambulatory function. B(Early & Late)

15. 기능적 전기자극 치료는 뇌졸중으로 인하여 약화된 발목 및 무릎 부위의 근력을 개선하므로 강력히 권고한다. A/1++
    (USA) FES for patients with impaired muscle contraction, specifically patients with ankle/knee/wrist motor impairment I/B, II-2/B
    (USA) Recommend Functional electrical stimulation (FES) as an adjunctive treatment for patients with impaired gait due to ankle/knee motor impairment. FES can be utilized for individuals with acute or chronic stroke for use in improving muscle force, strength and function in selected patients. ES must not be assumed to have sustained effects. C
    (SIGN) Electrical stimulation (ES) should be considered for use in improving muscle force, strength and function in selected patients. ES must not be assumed to have sustained effects.
    (CAN) Functional electrical stimulation (FES) should be considered for a treatment for drop-foot, where the aim of treatment is the immediate improvement of walking speed and/or muscle force, strength and function (gait) in selected patients. Functional electrical stimulation must not be assumed to have sustained effects. A (Early & Late)

<PAGE>138