## 3-5. 직업 복귀
D/4

1. 직업을 원하는 뇌졸중 환자에게 적절한 평가를 시행하고 직업 복귀 또는 취업을 지원하는 서비스를 제공하는 것이 고려되어야 한다.
    (USA) Recommend that all patients, if interested and their condition permits, be evaluated for the potential of returning to work. C
    (USA) Recommend that all patients who were previously employed, be referred to vocational counseling for assistance in returning to work. C
    (USA) Recommend that all patients who are considering a return to work, but who may have psychosocial barriers (e.g. motivation, emotional, and psychological concerns) be referred for supportive services, such as vocational counseling or psychological services. C
    (AUS) Stroke survivors who wish to work should be offered assessment (i.e. to establish their cognitive, language and physical abilities relative to their work demands), assistance to resume or take up work, or referral to a supported employment service. GPP
    (SIGN) Early in the rehabilitation pathway patients should be asked about vocational activities and liaison initiated with employers. Once work requirements are established patients should have appropriate assessments made of their ability to meet the needs of their current or potential employment. GPP

## 3-6. 성 생활

1. 뇌졸중 환자와 배우자에게 뇌졸중 이후의 성생활과 관련된 문제를 논의하고 정보를 제공하는 것을 고려한다.
    (USA) Sexual issues should be discussed during rehabilitation and addressed again after transition to the community when the post-stroke patient and partner are ready. recommendation
    (AUS) Stroke survivors and their partners should be offered:
        - the opportunity to discuss issues relating to sexuality with an appropriate health professional GPP
    (AUS) Any interventions should address psychosocial aspects as well as physical function. GPP
    (SIGN) Healthcare professionals should provide advice and information to patients and partners about sexuality and sex after stroke on an individualised basis. GPP

<PAGE>167