8. 뇌졸중 환자에서 골절 예방을 위해 다음과 같은 약물치료는 효과가 있다. B/1+
    (USA) Consider medications to reduce bone loss, which will reduce the development of osteoporosis. B
    (1) Vitamin D
    (USA) Assess for level of Vitamin D and consider supplemental Vitamin D in patients with insufficient levels B/1+
    (2) Biphosphonate 제제(Risedronate 등) B/1+
    (3) 칼슘제 B/1+
9. 낙상 위험이 있는 뇌졸중 환자에게는 낙상 예방을 위한 프로그램이 개별적으로 제공되어야 한다. B/2++
    (AUS) Multifactorial interventions in he community, including an individually prescribed exercise program, should be provided for people who are at risk of falling B
    (USA) Recommend performing regular reassessments for risk of falling including at discharge, ideally in the patient’s discharge environment B
    (USA)Recommend that patient and family/caregiver be provided education on fall prevention both in the hospital setting and in the home environment. B
    (CAN) Patients who are identified as high risk for falls in the community should have a comprehensive set of interventions implemented, such as an individually prescribed exercise program, in order to prevent or reduce the number and severity of falls. A
    (CAN) Based on the risk assessment findings, an individualized falls prevention plan should be implemented for each patient C
    (CAN) Patients should be educated regarding their risk for falls and precautions to take to reduce their risk. B
    (CAN) Families and caregivers should be provided with education and skills training for transferring and mobilizing the stroke patient. B
    (CAN) Topics addressed in patient, family, and caregiver education should include footwear, direction of transfer, gait aids, transfer belt use, seatbelt use, arm support devices, foot rests, and brakes C
    (SIGN) As some falls can lead to devastating complications, measures should be taken to minimise the risk of falling. Individually prescribed muscle strengthening and balance retraining programme, withdrawal of psychotropic medication and home hazard assessment and modification in people at high risk, for example with severe visual impairment, have been shown to be of benefit in reducing falls. 1+
<PAGE>159