(USA) There are several treatment options for the patient with stroke and mild depression that can be used alone or in combination based on the patient's individual need and preference for services. Refer to VA/ DoD guidelines for the management of Major A
(CAN) Patients diagnosed with a depressive disorder should be given a trial of antidepressant medication, if no contraindication exists. No recommendation is made for the use of one class of antidepressants over another; however, side effect profiles suggest that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors may be favoured in this patient population. A
- (1) 항우울제 선택 시 class I 항우울제와 SSRI 제제의 효과는 유사하나 금기증, 부작용을 고려하여 SSRI 제제 투약이 우선적으로 강력히 권고한다. A/1++
    (CAN) In adult patients with severe, persistent or troublesome tearfulness, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are recommended. B/1+
- (2) 항우울제 투여 시 단기간 치료보다는 충분한 기간 동안의 치료를 해야한다. B/1+
    (CAN) Treatment should be monitored and should continue for a minimum of six months if a good response is achieved. A
4 뇌졸중 후 우울증이 있는 환자에서 심리치료가 추천된다. C/2++
    (USA) Consider psychotherapy intervention for anxiety and panic. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy has been found to be a more efficacious treatment for anxiety and panic disorder than other therapeutic interventions. C
    (CAN) Patients with marked anxiety should be offered psychological therapy. Patients and their caregivers should have their psychosocial and support needs reviewed on a regular basis as part of long-term stroke management. B
    (AUS) Stroke survivors and their families/carers should be given access to individually tailored interventions for personality and behaviouralchanges e.g. participation in anger-management therapy and rehabilitation training and support in management of complex and challenging behaviour. GPP
    (SIGN) People who have had a stroke should be considered for workbook approaches that aim to address their beliefs and attitudes about their recovery. Psychological interventions, patient education, advice or support for post-stroke emotionalism GPP
5 뇌졸중 후 기분요동은 항우울제를 투여하는 것을 강력히 권고한다. A/1++
    (USA) Patients following stroke exhibiting extreme emotional lability (i.e. pathological crying/ tearfulness) should be given a trial of antidepressant medication, if no contraindication exists. SSRIs are recommended in this patient population. A
    (AUS) Antidepressants can be used for stroke patients who are depressed (following due consideration of the benefit and risk profile for the individual) and for those with emotional lability B

<PAGE>156