18) 전문위원회 대임. K-AGREE II 도구 활용 안내서. 2010
19) Drummond AER, Pearson B, Lincoln NB, Berman P. Ten year follow-up of a randomised controlled trial of care in a stroke rehabilitation unit. *Bmj*. 2005;331:491-492
20) Teasell RW, Foley NC, Bhogal SK, Speechley MR. An evidence-based review of stroke rehabilitation. *Topics in stroke Rehabilitation*. 2003;10:29-58
21) Gresham G, Duncan P, Stason W. Post-stroke rehabilitation: Assessment, referral and patient management, quick reference guide for clinicians. *Rockville, US Dept. of HHS, AHCPR Pub*. 1995:663
22) Langhorne P, Williams B, Gilchrist W, Howie K. Do stroke units save lives? *The Lancet*. 1993;342:395-398
23) Dobkin BH. *The clinical science of neurologic rehabilitation*. Oxford University Press, USA; 2003
24) Langhorne P, Pollock A. What are the components of effective stroke unit care? *Age and Ageing*. 2002;31:365-371
25) Hayes SH, Carroll SR. Early intervention care in the acute stroke patient. *Archives of physical medicine and rehabilitation*. 1986;67:319-321
26) Foley N, Salter K, Teasell R. Specialized stroke services: a meta-analysis comparing three models of care. *Cerebrovascular diseases*. 2007;23:194-202
27) Fang Y, Chen X, Li H, Lin J, Huang R, Zeng J. A study on additional early physiotherapy after stroke and factors affecting functional recovery. *Clinical rehabilitation*. 2003;17:608-617
28) Paolucci S, Antonucci G, Grasso MG, Morelli D, Troisi E, Coiro P, Bragoni M. Early versus delayed inpatient stroke rehabilitation: a matched comparison conducted in Italy. *Archives of physical medicine and rehabilitation*. 2000;81:695-700
29) Musicco M, Emberti L, Nappi G, Caltagirone C, Italian Multicenter Study on Outcomes of Rehabilitation of Neurological P. Early and long-term outcome of rehabilitation in stroke patients: the role of patient characteristics, time of initiation, and duration of interventions. *Archives of physical medicine and rehabilitation*. 2003;84:551-558
30) Maulden SA, Gassaway J, Horn SD, Smout RJ, DeJong G. Timing of initiation of rehabilitation after stroke. *Archives of physical medicine and rehabilitation*. 2005;86:S34-S40
31) Langhorne P, Wagenaar R, Partridge C. Physiotherapy after stroke: more is better? *Physiother Res Int*. 1996;1:75-88
32) Arias M, Smith LN. Early mobilization of acute stroke patients. *Journal of clinical nursing*. 2007;16:282-288
33) Diserens K, Moreira T, Hirt L, Faouzi M, Grujic J, Bieler G, Vuadens P, Michel P. Early mobilization out of bed after ischaemic stroke reduces severe complications but not cerebral blood flow: a randomized controlled pilot trial. *Clinical rehabilitation*. 2012;26:451-

<PAGE>99