341) Kim JS, Bashford G, Murphy TK, Martin A, Dror V, Cheung R. Safety and efficacy of pregabalin in patients with central post-stroke pain. Pain. 2011;152:1018-1023
342) Rah UW, Yoon SH, DO JUN M, Kwack KS, Hong JY, Lim YC, Joen B. Subacromial Corticosteroid Injection on Poststroke Hemiplegic Shoulder Pain: A Randomized, Triple-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial. Archives of physical medicine and rehabilitation. 2012;93:949-956
343) Singh JA, Fitzgerald PM. Botulinum toxin for shoulder pain. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;9
344) Geeganage CM, Sprigg N, Bath MW, Bath PMW. Balance of Symptomatic Pulmonary Embolism and Symptomatic Intracerebral Hemorrhage with Low-dose Anticoagulation in Recent Ischemic Stroke: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials. Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases. 2012
345) Goldhaber SZ, Bounameaux H. Pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis. The Lancet. 2012
346) Qaseem A, Chou R, Humphrey LL, Starkey M, Shekelle P. Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Venous thromboembolism prophylaxis in hospitalized patients: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2011;155:625-632
347) Field TS, Hill MD. Prevention of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients with stroke. Clinical and Applied Thrombosis/Hemostasis. 2012;18:5-19
348) Kiphuth IC, Köhrmann M, Huttner HB, Schellinger PD. The safety and usefulness of low molecular weight heparins and unfractionated heparins in patients with acute stroke. 2009
349) Collaboration CT, Dennis M, Sandercock P, Reid J, Graham C, Murray G, Venables G, Rudd A, Bowler G. Effectiveness of thigh-length graduated compression stockings to reduce the risk of deep vein thrombosis after stroke (CLOTS trial 1): a multicentre, randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2009;373:1958
350) Naccarato M, Chiodo Grandi F, Dennis M, Sandercock P. Physical methods for preventing deep vein thrombosis in stroke. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;8
351) Shepperd S, McClaran J, Phillips CO, Lannin NA, Clemson LM, McCluskey A, Cameron ID, Barras SL. Discharge planning from hospital to home. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;CD000313
352) Patel M, Potter J, Perez I, Kalra L. The process of rehabilitation and discharge planning in stroke: a controlled comparison between stroke units. Stroke. 1998;29:2484-2487
353) Barras S. A systematic and critical review of the literature: The effectiveness of occupational therapy home assessment on a range of outcome measures. Aust Occup Ther J. 2005;52:326-336
354) Trialists OS. Therapy-based rehabilitation services for stroke patients at home. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2003;CD002925
355) Aziz NA, Leonardi-Bee J, Phillips M, Gladman JR, Legg L, Walker MF. Therapy-based

<PAGE>121