## 16 당뇨병에서 체중 관리

50. Finer N, Bloom SR, Frost GS, et al. Sibutramine is effective for weight loss and diabetic control in obesity with type 2 diabetes: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Diabetes Obes Metab 2000;2:105-12.
51. Heymsfield SB, Segal KR, Hauptman J, et al. Effects of weight loss with orlistat on glucose tolerance and progression to type 2 diabetes in obese adults. Arch Intern Med 2000;160:1321-6.
52. Lau DCW. Surgical options for patients with type 2 diabetes: a review of current and emerging therapies. Can Diabetes 2010;23:3-13.
53. Abbatini F, Rizzello M, Casella G, et al. Long-term effects of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy, gastric bypass, and adjustable gastric banding on type 2 diabetes. Surg Endosc 2010;24:1005-10.
54. Mingrone G, Panunzi S, De Gaetano A, et al. Bariatric surgery versus conventional medical therapy for type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2012;366:1577-85.
55. Schauer PR, Kashyap SR, Wolski K, et al. Bariatric surgery versus intensive medical therapy in obese patients with diabetes. N Engl J Med 2012;366:1567-76.
56. Diabetes Program Prevention Research Group. Reduction in the incidence of Type 2 diabetes with lifestyle or metformin. N Engl J Med 2002;346:393-403.
57. Kahn SE, Haffner SM, Heise MA, et al, ADOPT Study Group. Glycemic durability of rosiglitazone, metformin, or glibenclamide monotherapy. N Engl J Med 2006;355:2427-43.
58. Rosenstock J, Hassaman DR, Madder RD, et al. Repaglinide Versus Nateglinide Comparison Study Group. Repaglinide versus nateglinide monotherapy: a randomized multicenter study. Diabetes Care 2004;27:1265-70.
59. De Leeuw I, Vague P, Selam JL, et al. Insulin detemir used in basal-bolus therapy in people with type 1 diabetes is associated with a lower risk of nocturnal hypoglycaemia and less weight gain over 12 months in comparison to NPH insulin. Diabetes Obes Metab 2005;7:73-82.
60. Rosenstock J, Schwartz SL, Clark Jr CM, et al. Basal insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes: 28-week comparison of insulin glargine (HOE 901) and NPH insulin. Diabetes Care 2001;24:631-6.
61. DeFronzo RA, Goodman AM. Efficacy of metformin in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. N Engl J Med 1995;333:541-9.
62. Coniff R, Shapiro J, Robbins D, et al. Reduction of glycosylated haemoglobin and postprandial hyperglycemia by acarbose in patients with NIDDM. Diabetes Care 1995;18:831-43.
63. Hollander P, Pi Sunyer X, Coniff R. Acarbose in the treatment of type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 1997; 20:248-54.
64. Ahrén B, Landin-Olsson M, Jansson PA, et al. Inhibition of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 reduces glycemia, sustains insulin levels, and reduces glucagons levels in type 2 diabetes. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2004;89:2078-84.
65. Scott R, Wu M, Sanchez M, Stein P. Efficacy and tolerability of the dipeptidylpeptidase-4 inhibitor sitagliptin as monotherapy over 12 weeks in patients with type 2 diabetes. Int J Clin Pract 2007;61:171-80.
66. Ratner RE, Maggs D, Nielsen LL, et al. Long-term effects of exenatide therapy over 82 weeks on glycaemic control and weight in over-weight metformin-treated patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Obes Metab 2006;8:419-28.
67. Nauck M, Frid A, Hermansen K, et al, LEAD-2 Study Group. Efficacy and safety comparison of liraglutide, glimepiride, and placebo, all in combination with metformin, in type 2 diabetes: the LEAD (liraglutide effect and action in diabetes)-2 study. Diabetes Care 2009;32:84-90.

<PAGE>203