## 05 당뇨병 예방

## 권고 사항
1.  내당능 장애 [A 등급, 근거 수준 1A], 공복혈당 장애 [B 등급, 근거 수준 2], 당화혈색소 5.7–6.4% [D 등급, 합의] 집단에서 당뇨병 발생 감소를 위해 체중 감량과 규칙적 신체 활동을 포함한 체계적 생활습관 교정 프로그램을 시행한다.
2.  내당능 장애 집단에서 메트포르민[A 등급, 근거 수준 1A] 또는 아카보스 [A 등급, 근거 수준 1A]를 이용한 약제 치료는 당뇨병 위험을 감소시킬 수 있다.

## 참고 문헌
1.  Narayan KM, Thompson TJ, Boyle JP, et al. The use of population attributable risk to estimate the impact of prevention and early detection of type 2 diabetes on population-wide mortality risk in US males. Health Care Manag Sci 1999;2:223-7.
2.  American Diabetes Association. Economic costs of diabetes in the US in 2007. Diabetes Care 2008;31: 596-615.
3.  Micucci S, Thomas H, Vohra J. The effectiveness of school based strategies for the primary preven tion of obesity and for promoting physical activity and/or nutrition, the major modifiable risk factors for type 2 diabetes: a review of reviews. Hamilton, ON: Public Health Research, Education and Long Term Care. Available at: http://old.hamilton.ca/ phcs/ephpp/Research/Full-Reviews/Diabetes Review.pdf. Accessed April 25, 2012.
4.  Tuomilehto J, Knowler WC, Zimmet P. Primary prevention of non-insulin dependent diabetes mel litus. Diabetes Metab Rev 1992;8:339-53.
5.  Tuomilehto J, Lindström J, Eriksson JG, et al, Finn ish Diabetes Prevention Study Group. Prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus by changes in lifestyle among subjects with impaired glucose tolerance. N Engl J Med 2001; 344:1343-50.
6.  Knowler WC, Barrett-Connor E, Fowler SE, et al, Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. Reduction in the incidence of type 2 diabetes with lifestyle intervention or metformin. N Engl J Med 2002;346:393-403.
7.  Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. 10 year follow-up of diabetes incidence and weight loss in the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study. Lancet 2009;374:1677-86.
8.  Kosaka K, Noda M, Kuzuya T. Prevention of type 2 diabetes by lifestyle intervention: a Japanese trial in IGT males. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2005;67(2):152-62.
9.  WHO Expert Committee on Diabetes Mellitus. 2nd report, WHO Technical Report Series No. 646, SFr 5. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organiza tion;1980.
10. Saito T, Watanabe M, Nishida J, et al, Zensharen Study for Prevention of Lifestyle Diseases Group. Lifestyle modification and prevention of type 2 dia betes in overweight Japanese with impaired fasting glucose levels: a randomized controlled trial. Arch Intern Med 2011;171:1352-60.
11. Gong Q, Gregg EW, Wang J, et al. Long-term ef fects of a randomised trial of a 6-year lifestyle inter vention in impaired glucose tolerance on diabetes related microvascular complications: the China Da Qing Diabetes Prevention Outcome Study. Diabe tologia 2011;54:300-7.
12. Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. Effects of withdrawal from metformin on the de velopment of diabetes in the Diabetes Prevention Program. Diabetes Care 2003;26:977-80.
13. Knowler WC, Hamman RF, Edelstein SL, et al, Dia betes Prevention Program Research Group. Preven tion of type 2 diabetes with troglitazone in the Dia betes Prevention Program. Diabetes 2005;54:1150-6.
<PAGE>87