## 10 신체활동과 당뇨병
133

32. Petrofsksy J, Lee H, Trivedi M, et al. The influence of aging and diabetes on heat transfer character-istics of the skin to a rapidly applied heat source. Diabetes Technol Ther 2010;12:1003-10.
33. Stansberry KB, Hill MA, Shapiro SA, et al. Impair-ment of peripheral blood flow responses in diabe-tes resembles an enhanced aging effect. Diabetes Care 1997;20:1711-6.
34. Petrofsky JS, Lee S, Patterson C, et al. Sweat pro-duction during global heating and during isometric exercise in people with diabetes. Med Sci Monit 2005;11:CR515-521.
35. Wick DE, Roberts SK, Basu A, et al. Delayed threshold for active cutaneous vasodilation in pa-tients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Appl Physiol 2006;100:637-41.
36. Riddell MC, Perkins BA. Type 1 diabetes and vigor-ous exercise: applications of exercise physiology to patient management. Can J Diabetes 2006;30:63-71.39.
37. R.J. Sigal C, Purdon S.J. Fisher Hyperinsulinemia prevents prolonged hyperglycemia after intense ex-ercise in insulin-dependent diabetic subjects J Clin Endocrinol Metab 79 1994;1049-1057.
38. Eves ND, Plotnikoff RC. Resistance training and type 2 diabetes. Considerations for implementation at the population levels. Diabetes Care 2006;29: 1933-41.
39. Castaneda C, Layne JE, Munoz-Orians L, et al. A ran-domized controlled trial of resistance exercise train-ing to improve glycemic control in older adults with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2002;25:2335-41.
40. Dunstan DW, Daly RM, Owen N, et al. High-inten-sity resistance training improves glycemic control in older patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2002;25:1729-36.
41. Durak EP, Jovanovic-Peterson L, Peterson CM. Randomized crossover study of effect of resistance training on glycemic control, muscular strength, and cholesterol in type 1 diabetic men. Diabetes Care 1990;13:1039-43.
42. Cauza E, Hanusch-Enserer U, Strasser B, et al. The relative benefits of endurance and strength train-ing on the metabolic factors and muscle function of people with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Arch Phys Med Rehabil 2005;86:1527-33.
43. Church TS, Blair SN, Cocreham S, et al. Effects of aerobic and resistance training on hemoglobin A1c levels in patients with type 2 diabetes: a random-ized controlled trial. JAMA 2010;304:2253-62.
44. Sigal RJ, Kenny GP, Boule NG, et al. Effects of aerobic training, resistance training, or both on glycemic control in type 2 diabetes: a randomized trial. Ann Intern Med 2007;147:357-69.
45. Johnson S, Newton A, Chopra M, et al. In search of quality evidence for lifestyle management and glycemic control in children and adolescents with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review. BMC Pediatr 2010;10:97.
46. Eriksen L, Dahl-Petersen I, Haugaard SB, Dela F. Comparison of the effect of multiple short-duration with single long-duration exercise sessions on glucose homeostasis in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Diabetologia 2007;50:2245-53.
47. Lin JS, O'Connor E, Whitlock EP, Beil TL. Behavioral counseling to promote physical activity and a health-ful diet to prevent cardiovascular disease in adults: a systematic review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Ann Intern Med 2010;153:736-50.
48. DeWalt DA, Davis TC, Wallace AS, et al. Goal setting in diabetes self-management: taking the baby steps to success. Patient Educ Couns 2009;77:218-23.
49. Gleeson-Kreig JM. Self-monitoring of physical activ-ity: effects on self-efficacy and behavior in people with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Educ 2006;32:69-77.
50. Plotnikoff RC, Trinh L, Courneya KS, et al. Predic-tors of physical activity in adults with type 2 diabe-tes. Am J Health Behav 2011;35:359-70.
51. Petrella RJ, Koval JJ, Cunningham DA, Paterson DH. Can primary care doctors prescribe exercise to improve fitness?. The step test exercise prescription (STEP) project. Am J Prev Med 2003;24:316-22.
52. Kirk A, Mutrie N, MacIntyre P, Fisher M. Effects of a 12-month physical activity counselling inter-vention on glycaemic control and on the status of cardiovascular risk factors in people with Type 2 diabetes. Diabetologia 2004;47:821-32.
53. Wolf AM, Conaway MR, Crowther JQ, et al. Trans-lating lifestyle intervention to practice in obese pa-tients with type 2 diabetes: Improving Control with Activity and Nutrition (ICAN) study. Diabetes Care 2004;27:1570-6.
54. Norris SL, Zhang X, Avenell A, et al. Long-term non-pharmacologic weight loss interventions for adults with type 2 diabetes. Cochrane Database Syst Rev2005;2:CD004095.
55. van Dam HA, van der Horst FG, Knoops L, et al. Social support in diabetes: a systematic review of controlled intervention studies. Patient Educ Couns 2005;59:1-12.

<PAGE>133