19 건강기능식품 223

11. Fujita H, Yamagami T, Ohshima K. Long-term ingestion of a fermented soybean-derived Touchi extract with alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity is safe and effective in humans with borderline and mild type-2 diabetes. J Nutr 2001;131:2105-8.
12. Hariharan RS, Venkataraman S, Sunitha P, et al. Efficacy of vijayasar (Pterocarpus marsupium) in the treatment of newly diagnosed patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a flexible dose double-blind multicenter randomized controlled trial. Diabetol Croat 2005;34:13-20.
13. Huyen VTT, Phan DV, Thang P, et al. Antidiabetic effect of gynostemma pentaphyllum tea in randomly assigned type 2 diabetic patients. Horm Metab Res 2010;42:353-7.
14. Zhu CF, Li GZ, Peng HB, et al. Treatment with marine collagen peptides modulates glucose and lipid metabolism in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab 2010;35:797-804.
15. Hussain SA. Silymarin as an adjunct to glibenclamide therapy improves long-term and postprandial glycemic control and body mass index in type 2 diabetes. J Med Food 2007;10:543-7.
16. Huseini HF, Larijani B, Heshmat R, et al. The efficacy of Silybum marianum (L). Gaertn. (silymarin) in the treatment of type II diabetes: a randomized, doubleblind, placebo-controlled, clinical trial. Phytother Res 2006;20:1036-9.
17. Huseini HF, Darvishzadeh F, Heshmat R, et al. The clinical investigation of Citrullus colocynthis schrad (L). fruit in treatment of type II diabetic patients: a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Phytother Res 2009;23:1186-9.
18. Lu FR, Shen L, Qin Y, et al. Clinical observation on trigonellafoenum-graecum L. total saponins in combination with sulfonylureas in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Chin J Integr Med 2008;14:56-60.
19. Sangsuwan C, Udompanthurak S, Vannasaeng S, et al. Randomized controlled trial of Tinospora crispa for additional therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Med Assoc Thai 2004;87:543-6.
20. Liu X, Wei J, Tan F, et al. Antidiabetic effect of Pycnogenol French maritime pinebark extract in patients with diabetes type II. Life Sci 2004;75:2505-13.
21. Jayagopal V, Albertazzi P, Kilpatrick ES, et al. Beneficial effects of soy phytoestrogen intake in postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2002;25:1709-14.
22. Hsu C-H, Liao Y-L, Lin S-C, Hwang K-C, Chou P. The mushroom Agaricus blazei Murill in combination with metformin and gliclazide improves insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes: a randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled clinical trial. J Altern Complement Med 2007;13:97-102.
23. Rytter E, Vessby B, Asg AR, et al. Supplementation with a combination of antioxidants does not affect glycaemic control, oxidative stress or inflammation in type 2 diabetes subjects. Free Radic Res 2010;44:1445-53.
24. Fenercioglu AK, Saler T, Genc E, et al. The effects of polyphenol-containing antioxidants on oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation in Type 2 diabetes mellitus without complications. J Endocrinol Invest 2010;33:118-24.
25. MacKenzie T, Leary L, Brooks WB. The effect an extract of green and black tea on glucose control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: double-blind randomized study. Metab Clin Exp 2007;56:1340-4.
26. Mang B, Wolters M, Schmitt B, et al. Effects of a cinnamon extract on plasma glucose, HbA, and serum lipids in diabetes mellitus type 2. Eur J Clin Invest 2006;36:340-4.
27. Blevins SM, Leyva MJ, Brown J, et al. Effect of cinnamon on glucose and lipid levels in noninsulin-dependent type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2007;30:2236-7.
28. Crawford P. Effectiveness of cinnamon for lowering hemoglobin A1C in patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized, controlled trial. J Am Board Fam Med 2009;22:507-12.
29. Akilen R, Tsiami A, Devendra D, Robinson N. Glycated haemoglobin and blood pressure-lowering effect of cinnamon in multi-ethnic Type 2 diabetic patients in the UK: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial. Diabet Med 2010;27:1159-67.
30. Suppapittiporn S, Kanpaksi N, Suppapittiporn S. The effect of cinnamon cassia powder in type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Med Assoc Thail 2006;89(suppl 3):S200-5.
31. Dans AM, Villarruz MV, Jimeno CA, et al. The effect of Momordica charantia capsule preparation on glycemic control in type 2 diabetes mellitus needs further studies. J Clin Epidemiol 2007;60:55-9.
32. Barre DE, Mizier-Barre KA, Griscti O, Hafez K. High dose flaxseed oil supplementation may affect fasting blood serum glucose management in hu-