22 이상지질혈증 251

27. Heart Protection Study Collaborative Group, MRC/BHF Heart Protection Study of cholesterol lowering with simvastatin in 20,536 high-risk individuals: a randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2002;360:7-22.
28. Colhoun HM, Betteridge DJ, Durrington PN, et al. CARDS Investigators Primary prevention of cardiovascular disease with atorvastatin in type 2 diabetes in the Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study (CARDS): multicentre randomized placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2004;364:685-96.
29. LaRosa JC, Grundy SM, Waters DD, et al, Treating to New Targets (TNT) Investigators Intensive lipid lowering with atorvastatin in patients with stable coronary disease. N Engl J Med 2005;352:1425-35.
30. Shepherd J, Barter P, Carmena R, et al. Effect of lowering LDL cholesterol substantially below currently recommended levels in patients with coronary heart disease and diabetes: the Treating to New Targets (TNT) study. Diabetes Care 2006;29: 1220-6.
31. Costa J, Borges M, David C, Carneiro AV. Efficacy of lipid lowering drug treatment for diabetic and non-diabetic patients: meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. BMJ 2006;332:1115-8.
32. Tkac I. Treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with type 2 diabetes: overview and meta-analysis of randomized trials. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2007;78s: s23-8.
33. Brugts JJ, Yetgin T, Hoeks SE, et al. The benefits of statins in people without established cardiovascular disease but with cardiovascular risk factors: meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ 2009; 338:b2376.
34. Leiter LA, Betteridge DG, Farnier M, et al. Lipid-altering efficacy and safety profile of combination therapy with ezetimibe/statin vs. statin monotherapy in patients with and without diabetes: an analysis of pooled data from 27 clinical trials. Diabetes Obes Metab 2011;13:615-28.
35. Evans JM, Wang J, Morris AD. Comparison of cardiovascular risk between patients with type 2 diabetes and those who had had a myocardial infarction: cross sectional and cohort studies. BMJ 2002; 324:939-42.
36. Sever PS, Poulter NR, Dalhof B, et al. Reduction in cardiovascular events with atorvastatin in 2532 patients with type 2 diabetes. Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial-lipid-lowering arm (AS-COT-LLA). Diabetes Care 2005;28:1151-7.
37. Charlton-Menys V, Betteridge DJ, Colhoun H, et al. Targets of statin therapy: LDL cholesterol, non-HDL cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B in type 2 diabetes in the Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study (CARDS). Clin Chem 2009;55:473-80.
38. Knopp RH, D’emden M, Smilde SJ, et al. Efficacy and safety of atorvastatin in the prevention of cardiovascular end points in subjects with type 2 diabetes: the Atorvastatin Study for Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease Endpoints in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (ASPEN). Diabetes Care 2006;29:1478-85.
39. Baigent C, Keech A, Kearney PM, et al, Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ (CTT) Collaborators. Efficacy and safety of cholesterol-lowering treatment: prospective meta-analysis of data from 90,056 participants in 14 randomised trials of statins. Lancet 2010;366:1267-78.
40. Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ (CTT) Collaborators Kearney PM, Blackwell L, Collins R, et al. Efficacy of cholesterol-lowering therapy in 18,686 people with diabetes in 14 randomised trials of statins: a meta-analysis. Lancet 2008;371:117-25.
41. Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ (CTT) Collaboration Baigent C, Blackwell L, Emberson J, et al, Efficacy and safety of more intensive lowering of LDL cholesterol: a meta-analysis of data from 170,000 participants in 26 randomised trials. Lancet 2010;376:1670-81.
42. Fleg JL, Mete M, Howard BV, et al. Effect of statins alone versus statins plus ezetimibe on carotid atherosclerosis in type 2 diabetes. J Am Coll Cardiol 2008;52:2198-205.
43. Howard WJ, Russell M, Fleg JL, et al. Prevention of atherosclerosis with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering-lipoprotein changes and interactions: the SANDS study. J Clin Lipid 2009;3:322-31.
44. Baigent C, Landray MJ, Reith C, et al, on behalf of The SHARP Investigators The effects of lowering LDL cholesterol with simvastatin plus ezetimibe in patients with chronic kidney disease (Study of Heart and Renal Protection): a randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2011;377:2181-92.
45. Davis TME, Ting R, Best JD, et al. Effects of fenofibrate on renal function in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: the Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) Study. Diabetologia 2011;54:280-90.
46. Genest J, Frohlich J, Fodor G, et al, Working Group