31 발기부전
<PAGE>317

# 참고 문헌
1. Eardley I, Fisher W, Rosen RC, et al. The multina- tional Men's Attitudes to LifeEvents and Sexuality study: the influence of diabetes on self-reported erectile function, attitudes and treatment-seeking patterns in men with erectile dysfunction. Int J Clin Pract 2007;61:1446-53.
2. Al-Hunayan A, Al-Mutar M, Kehinde EO, et al. The prevalence and predictors of erectile dysfunction in men with newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus. BJU Int 2007;99:130-4.
3. Aversa A, Bruzziches R, Vitale C, et al. Chronic sildenafil in men with diabetes and erectile dys- function. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol 2007;3: 451-64.
4. Chew KK, Earle CM, Stuckey BG, et al. Erec- tile dysfunction in general medicine practice: prevalence and clinical correlates. Int J Impot Res 2000;12:41-5.
5. Maatman TJ, Montague DK, Martin LM. Erectile dysfunction in men with diabetes mellitus. Urology 1987;29:589-92.
6. Rubin A, Babbott D. Impotence and diabetes mel- litus. JAMA 1958;168:498-500.
7. Kolodny RC, Kahn CB, Goldstein HH, et al. Sexual dysfunction in diabetic men. Diabetes 1974;23:306-9.
8. McCulloch DK, Campbell IW, Wu FC, et al. The prevalence of diabetic impotence. Diabetologia 1980;18:279-83.
9. Zemel P. Sexual dysfunction in the diabetic patient with hypertension. Am J Cardiol 1988;61:27He33H.
10. McCulloch DK, Young RJ, Prescott RJ, et al. The natural history of impotence indíabetic men. Dia- betologia 1984;26:437-40.
11. Bacon CG, Hu FB, Giovannucci E, et al. Associa- tion of type and duration of diabetes with erectile dysfunction in a large cohort of men. Diabetes Care 2002;25:1458-63.
12. De Berardis G, Pellegrini F, Franciosi M, et al. Identifying patients with type 2diabetes with a higher likelihood of erectile dysfunction: the role of the interaction between clinical and psychologi- cal factors. J Urol 2003;169:1422-8.
13. Angulo J, Cuevas P, Fernández A, et al. Enhanced thromboxane receptor-mediated responses and im- paired endothelium-dependent relaxation inhuman corpus cavernosum from diabetic impotent men:
role of protein kinase C activity. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 2006;319:783-9.
14. Angulo J, Peiró C, Cuevas P, et al. The novel antioxidant, AC3056(2,6-di-t-butyl-4-((dimethyl- 4-methoxyphenylsilyl) methyloxy)phenol), reverses erectile dysfunction in diabetic rats and improves NO-mediated responses in penile tissue from dia- betic men. J Sex Med 2009;6:373-87.
15. Angulo J, González-Corrochano R, Cuevas P, et al. Diabetes exacerbates the functional deficiency of NO/cGMP pathway associated with erectile dys- function in human corpus cavernosum and penile arteries. J Sex Med 2010;7(2 pt 1):758-68.
16. Alexopoulou O, Jamart J, Maiter D, et al. Erectile dysfunction and lower androgenicity in type 1 dia- betic patients. Diabetes Metab 2001;27:329-36.
17. Naliboff BD, Rosenthal M. Effects of age on com- plications in adult onset diabetes. J Am Geriatr Soc 1989;37:838-42.
18. Feldman HA, Goldstein I, Hatzichristou DG, et al. Impotence and its medical and psychosocial cor- relates: results of the Massachusetts Male Aging Study. J Urol 1994;151:54-61.
19. Grower SA, Lowensteyn I, Kaouache M, et al. The prevalence of erectile dysfunction in the primary care setting: importance of risk factors for diabe- tes and vascular disease. Arch Intern Med 2006; 166:213-9.
20. Barrett-Connor E. Cardiovascular risk stratifica- tion and cardiovascular risk factors associated with erectile dysfunction: assessing cardiovascular risk in men with erectile dysfunction. Clin Cardiol 2004;27(suppl 1):18-13.
21. Billups KL. Erectile dysfunction as an early sign of cardiovascular disease. Int J Impot Res 2005; 17(suppl 1):S19-24.
22. Thompson IM, Tangen CM, Goodman PJ, et al. Erectile dysfunction and subsequent cardiovascular disease. JAMA 2005;294:2996-3002.
23. Gazzaruso C. Erectile dysfunction and coronary atherothrombosis in diabetic patients: pathophysi- ology, clinical features and treatment. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther 2006;4:173-80.
24. Barrett-Connor E. Heart disease risk factors predict erectile dysfunction25 years later(the Rancho Ber- nardo Study). Am J Cardiol 2005;96:3M-7M.