250
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

4. Gaede P, Vedel P, Larsen N, et al. Multifactorial intervention and cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2003;348:383-93.
5. Fruchart J-C, Sacks FM, Hermans MP, et al, The Residual Risk Reduction Initiative: a call to action to reduce residual vascular risk in dyslipidemic patients. Diabetes Vasc Dis Res 2008;5:319-32.
6. Parhofer KG. Pathophysiology of diabetic dyslipidemia: implications for atherogenesis and treatment. Clin Lipidol 2011;6:401-11.
7. Leiter LA, Fitchett DH, Gilbert RE, et al. Cardiometabolic risk in Canada: a detailed analysis and position paper by the Cardiometabolic Risk Working Group. Can J Cardiol 2011;27:e1-33.
8. Ginsberg HN, MacCallum PR. The obesity, metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes mellitus pandemic: part I. increased cardiovascular disease risk and the importance of atherogenic dyslipidemia in persons with the metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Cardiometab Syndr 2009;4:113-9.
9. Anderson TJ, Grégoire J, Hegele RA, et al. 2012 update of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of dyslipidemia for the prevention of cardiovascular disease in the adult. Can J Cardiol 2013;29:151-67.
10. Harris SB, Ekoe JM, Zdanowicz Y, et al. Glycemic control and morbidity in the Canadian primary care setting(results of the diabetes in Canada evaluation study). Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2005;70:90-7.
11. Alberti KGMM, Eckel R, Grundy S, et al. Harmonizing the metabolic syndrome. Circulation 2009;120:1640-5.
12. Dattilo AM, Kris-Etherton PM. Effects of weight reduction on blood lipids and lipoproteins: a meta-analysis. Am J Clin Nutr 1992;56:320-8.
13. Wing RR, Lang W, Wadden TA, et al, AHEAD Research Group. Benefits of modest weight loss in improving cardiovascular risk factors in overweight and obese individuals with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1481-6.
14. Kendall CW, Jenkins DJ. A dietary portfolio: maximal reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol with diet. Curr Atheroscler Rep 2004;6:492-8.
15. Jenkins DJ, Kendall CW, Faulkner DA, et al. Assessment of the longer-term effects of a dietary portfolio of cholesterol-lowering foods in hypercholesterolemia. Am J Clin Nutr 2006;83:582-91.
16. Wing RR. Weight loss in the management of type 2 diabetes. In: Gerstein HC, Haynes RB, editors. Evidence-based Diabetes Care. Hamilton, ON: BC DeckerInc.;2001. p.252-76.
17. Boulé NG, Haddad E, Kenny GP, et al. Effects of exercise on glycemic control and body mass in type 2 diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis of controlled clinical trials. JAMA 2001;286:1218-27.
18. Moy CS, Songer TJ, LaPorte RE, et al. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, physical activity, and death. Am J Epidemiol 1993;137:74-81.
19. Hu FB, Stampfer MJ, Solomon CG, et al. The impact of diabetes mellitus on mortality from all causes and coronary heart disease in women: 20 years of follow-up. Arch Intern Med 2001;161:1717-23.
20. Wei M, Gibbons LW, Kampert JB, et al. Low cardiorespiratory fitness and physical inactivity as predictors of mortality in men with type 2 diabetes. Ann Intern Med 2000;132:605-11.
21. Warburton DE, Nichol CW, Bredin SS. Health benefits of physical activity: the evidence. CMAJ 2006;174:801-9.
22. Church TS, Cheng YJ, Earnest CP, et al. Exercise capacity and body composition as predictors of mortality among men with diabetes. Diabetes Care 2004;27:83-8.
23. Pyörälä K, Pedersen TR, Kjekshus J, et al. Cholesterol lowering with simvastatin improves prognosis of diabetic patients with coronary heart disease. A subgroup analysis of the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study(4S). Diabetes Care 1997;20:614-20.
24. Sacks FM, Pfeffer MA, Moye LA, et al. The effect of pravastatin on coronary events after myocardial infarction in patients with average cholesterol levels. Cholesterol and Recurrent Events Trial investigators. N Engl J Med 1996;335:1001-9.
25. Prevention of cardiovascular events and death with pravastatin in patients with coronary heart disease and a broad range of initial cholesterol levels. The Long-term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischaemic Disease (LIPID) Study Group. N Engl J Med 1998;339:1349-57.
26. Collins R, Armitage J, Parish S, et al, Heart Protection Study Collaborative Group. MRC/BHF Heart Protection Study of cholesterol-lowering with simvastatin in 5963 people with diabetes: a randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2003;361:2005-16.