34 노인 당뇨병 357

# 참고 문헌

1.  Tessier D, Meneilly GS. Diabetes management in the elderly. In: Gerstein HC, Haynes RB, editors. Evidence-based Diabetes Care. Hamilton, ON: BC DeckerInc; 2001. p.370-9.
2.  Lipska KJ, De Rekeneire N, Van Ness PH, et al. Identifying dysglycemic states in older adults: implications of the emerging use of hemoglobin A1C. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2010;95:5289-95.
3.  Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group; Crandall J, Schade D, Ma Y, et al. The influence of age on the effects of lifestyle modification and metformin in prevention of diabetes. J Gerontol A Biol Med Sci 2006;61:1075-81.
4.  Chiasson JL, Josse RG, Gomis R, et al, STOP-NIDDM Trial Research Group, Acarbose for prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus: the STOP-NIDDM randomised trial. Lancet 2002;359:2072-7.
5.  DREAM (Diabetes REduction Assessment with ramipril and rosiglitazone Medication) Trial Investigators Gerstein HC, Yusuf S, Bosch J, et al, Effect of rosiglitazone on the frequency of diabetes in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or impaired fasting glucose: a randomized controlled trial. Lan cet 2006;368:1096-105.
6.  DeFronzo RA, Tripathy D, Schwenke DC, et al. Pioglitazone for diabetes prevention in impaired glucose tolerance. N Engl J Med 2011;364:1104-15.
7.  Braun AK, Kubiak T, Kuntsche J, et al, SGS: a structured treatment and teaching programme for older patients with diabetes mellitus: a prospective randomized controlled multi-centre trial. Age Ageing 2009;38:390-6.
8.  Fagan PJ, Schuster AB, Boyd C. Chronic care improvement in primary care: evaluation of an integrated pay-for-performance and practice-based care coordination program among elderly patients with diabetes. Health Serv Res2010;45:1763-82.
9.  Lim S, Kang SM, Shin H, et al, Improved glycemic control without hypoglycemia in elderly diabetic patients using the ubiquitous health care service, a new medical information system. Diabetes Care 2011;34:308-13.
10. Obreli-Neto PR, Guidoni CM, Baldoni AO, et al. Ef fect of a 36-month pharmaceutical care program on pharmacotherapy adherence in elderly diabetic and hypertensive patients. Int J Clin Pharm 2011;33:642-9.
11. Turnbull FM, Abraira C, Anderson RJ, et al. Inten sive glucose control and macrovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. Diabetologia 2009;52:2288-98.
12. Kalyani RR, Sauder CD, Brancati FL, Selvin E. As sociation of diabetes, comorbidities and A1c with functional disability in older adults. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1055-60.
13. Raz I, Ceriello A, Wilson PW, et al. Post hoc sub group analysis of the HEART2D Trial demonstrates lower cardiovascular risk in older patients targeting postprandial versus fasting/premeal glycemia. Dia betes Care 2011;34:1511-3.
14. Rizzo MR, Marfella R, Barbieri M, et al. Relation ships between daily acute glucose fluctuations and cognitive performance among aged type 2 diabetic patients. Diabetes Care 2010;33:2169-74.
15. Munshi MN, Segal AR, Emmy Suhl E, et al. Fre quent hypoglycemia among elderly patients with poor glycemic control. Arch Intern Med 2011;171: 362-4.
16. Bremer JP, Jauch-Chara K, Hallschmid M, et al. Hy poglycemia unawareness in older compared with middle-aged patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabe tes Care 2009;32:1513-7.
17. Whitmer RA, Karter AJ, Yaffe K, et al. Hypoglycemic episodes and risk of dementia in older patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. JAMA 2009;301:1565-72.
18. Bruce DG, Davis WA, Casey GP, et al. Severe hypoglycemia and cognitive impairment in older patients with diabetes: the Freemantle Diabetes Study. Diabetologia 2009;52:1808-15.
19. Fried LP, Tangen CM, Walston J, et al. Frailty in older adults: evidence for a phenotype. J Gerontol Med Sci 2001;56A:M146-56.
20. Blaum CS, Xue QL, Tian J, et al. Is hyperglycemia associated with frailty status in older women? J Am Geriatr Soc 2009;57:840-7.
21. Hubbard RE, Andrew MK, Fallah H, Rockwood K. Comparison of the prognostic importance of diag nosed diabetes, co-morbidity and frailty in older people. Diabet Med 2010;27:603-6.
22. Rockwood K, Song X, MacKnight C, et al. A global clinical measure of fitness and frailty in elderly people. CMAJ 2005;173:489-95.
23. Moorhouse P, Rockwood K. Frailty and its quanti tative clinical evaluation. J R Coll Physicians Edinb

<PAGE>357