30 발 관리
311
8. Ikonen TS, Sund R, Venermo M, Winell K. Fewer major amputations among individuals with diabetes in Finland in 1997-2007: a population-based study. Diabetes Care 2010;33:2598-603.
9. Boyko EJ, Ahroni JH, Stensel V, et al. A prospective study of risk factors for diabetic foot ulcer. The Seattle Diabetic Foot Study. Diabetes Care 1999;22:1036-42.
10. Fernando DJ, Masson EA, Veves A, et al. Relationship of limited joint mobility to abnormal foot pressures and diabetic foot ulceration. Diabetes Care 1991;14:8-11.
11. Boyko EJ, Nelson KM, Ahroni JH, et al. Prediction of diabetic foot ulcer occurrence using commonly available clinical information. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1202.
12. Feng Y, Schlösser FJ, Bauer E, Sumpio BE. The Semmes Weinstein monofilament examination is a significant predictor of the risk of foot ulceration and amputation in patients with diabetes mellitus. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:220-6.
13. Armstrong DG, Lavery LA, Harkless LB. Validation of a diabetic wound classification system. The contribution of depth, infection, and ischemia to risk of amputation. Diabetes Care 1998;21:855-9.
14. Oyibo SO, Jude EB, Tarawneh I, et al. A comparison of two diabetic foot ulcer classification systems: the Wagner and the University of Texas wound classification systems. Diabetes Care 2001;24:84-8.
15. Jude EB, Oyibo SO, Chalmers N, Boulton AJ. Peripheral arterial disease in diabetic and nondiabetic patients: a comparison of severity and outcome. Diabetes Care 2001;24:1433-7.
16. Kalani M, Brismar K, Fagrell B, et al. Transcutaneous oxygen tension and toe blood pressure as predictors for outcome of diabetic foot ulcers. Diabetes Care 1999;22:147-51.
17. Faglia E, Caravaggi C, Marchetti R, et al, SCAR (SCreening for ARteriopathy) Study Group. Screening for peripheral arterial disease by means of the ankle-brachial index in newly diagnosed type 2 diabetic patients. Diabet Med 2005;22:1310-4.
18. Aerden D, Massaad D, von Kemp K, et al. The ankle-brachial index and the diabetic foot: a troublesome marriage. Ann Vasc Surg 2011;25:770-7.
19. Williams DT, Harding KG, Price P. An evaluation of the efficacy of methods used in screening for lower-limb arterial disease in diabetes. Diabetes Care 2005;28:2206-10.
20. Brillet PY, Vayssairat M, Tassart M, et al. Gadolinium-enhanced MR angiography as first-line preoperative imaging in high-risk patients with lower limb ischemia. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2003;14:1139-45.
21. Lapeyre M, Kobeiter H, Desgranges P, et al. Assessment of critical limb ischemia in patients with diabetes: comparison of MR angiography and digital subtraction angiography. AJR Am J Roentgenol 2005;185:1641-50.
22. Met R, Bipat S, Legemate DA, et al. Diagnostic performance of computed tomography angiography in peripheral arterial disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA 2009;301:415-24.
23. Pedersen M. Safety update on the possible causal relationship between gadolinium-containing MRI agents and nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. J Magn Reson Imaging 2007;25:881-3.
24. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Nephrogenic fibrosing dermopathy associated with exposure to gadolinium-containing contrast agents-St. Louis, Missouri, 2002-2006. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2007;56:137-41.
25. Lavery LA, Higgins KR, Lanctot DR, et al. Preventing diabetic foot ulcer recurrence in high-risk patients: use of temperature monitoring as a self-assessment tool. Diabetes Care 2007;30:14-20.
26. Armstrong DG, Lavery LA. Monitoring healing of acute Charcot's arthropathy with infrared dermal thermometry. J Rehabil Res Dev 1997;34:317-21.
27. Yu GV, Hudson JR. Evaluation and treatment of stage 0 Charcot's neuroarthropathy of the foot and ankle. J Am Podiatr Med Assoc 2002;92:210-20.
28. Frykberg RG, Zgonis T, Armstrong DG, et al, American College of Foot and Ankle Surgeons. Diabetic foot disorders. A clinical practical guideline (2006 revision). J Foot Ankle Surg 2006;45(5 suppl):S1-66.
29. Ledermann HP, Morrison WB. Differential diagnosis of pedal osteomyelitis and diabetic neuroarthropathy: MR imaging. Semin Musculoskelet Radiol 2005;9:272-83.
30. Embil JM, Trepman E. A case of diabetic Charcot arthropathy of the foot and ankle. Nat Rev Endocrinol 2009;5:577-81.
31. Ahmadi ME, Morrison WB, Carrino JA, et al. Neuropathic arthropathy of the foot with and without superimposed osteomyelitis: MR imaging characteristics. Radiology 2006;238:622-31.
32. Apelqvist J, Bakker K, vanHoutum WH, Schaper NC, International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot (IWGDF) Editorial Board. Practical guidelines on the management and prevention of the diabetic
<PAGE>311