## 27 당뇨병에서 만성 신질환

26. Chaiken RL, Khawaja R, Bard M, et al. Utility of untimely urinary albumin measurements in assessing albuminuria in black NIDDM subjects. Diabetes Care 1997;20:709-13.
27. Bakker AJ. Detection of microalbuminuria. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis favors albumin-to-creatinine ratio over albumin concentration. Diabetes Care 1999;22:307-13.
28. Huttunen NP, Kaar M, Puukka R, et al. Exercise-induced proteinuria in children and adolescents with type 1 (insulin dependent) diabetes. Diabetologia 1981;21:495-7.
29. Solling J, Solling K, Mogensen CE. Patterns of proteinuria and circulating immune complexes in febrile patients. Acta Med Scand 1982;212:167-9.
30. Ritz E. Nephropathy in type 2 diabetes. J Intern Med 1999;245:111-26.
31. Wiseman M, Viberti G, Mackintosh D, et al. Glycaemia, arterial pressure and micro-albuminuria in type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. Diabetologia 1984;26:401-5.
32. Ravid M, Savin H, Lang R, et al. Proteinuria, renal impairment, metabolic control, and blood pressure in type 2 diabetes mellitus. A 14-year follow-up report on 195 patients. Arch Intern Med 1992;152:225-9.
33. Gault MH, Longerich LL, Harnett JD, et al. Predicting glomerular function from adjusted serum creatinine. Nephron 1992;62:249-56.
34. Bending JJ, Keen H, Viberti GC. Creatinine is a poor marker of renal failure. Diabet Med 1985;2:65-6.
35. Shemesh O, Golbetz H, Kriss JP, et al. Limitations of creatinine as a filtration marker in glomerulopathic patients. Kidney Int 1985;28:830-8.
36. Levey AS, Bosch JP, Lewis JB, et al. A more accurate method to estimate glomerular filtration rate from serum creatinine: a new prediction equation. Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study Group. Ann Intern Med 1999;130:461-70.
37. Poggio ED, Wang X, Greene T, et al. Performance of the modification of diet in renal disease and Cockcroft-Gault equations in the estimation of GFR in health and in chronic kidney disease. J Am Soc Nephrol 2005;16:459-66.
38. Wang PH, Lau J, Chalmers TC. Meta-analysis of effects of intensive blood-glucose control on late complications of type I diabetes. Lancet 1993; 341:1306-9.
39. Anonymous. Effect of intensive therapy on the development and progression of diabetic nephropathy in the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial, The Diabetes Control and Complications (DCCT) Research Group. Kidney Int 1995;47:1703-20.
40. Anonymous. Intensive blood-glucose control with sulphonylureas or insulin compared with conventional treatment and risk of complications in patients with type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 33). UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Group. Lancet 1998;352:837-53.
41. Retinopathy and nephropathy in patients with type 1 diabetes four years after a trial of intensive therapy. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Research Group. N Eng J Med 2000;342:381-9.
42. Shichiri M, Kishikawa H, Ohkubo Y, et al. Long-term results of the Kumamoto Study on optimal diabetes control in type 2 diabetic patients. Diabetes Care 2000;23 (Suppl 2):B21-9.
43. Tight blood pressure control and risk of macrovascular and microvascular complications in type 2 diabetes: UKPDS 38. UK Prospective Diabetes Study Group. BMJ 1998;317:703-13.
44. Schrier RW, Estacio RO, Mehler PS, et al. Appropriate blood pressure control in hypertensive and normotensive type 2 diabetes mellitus: a summary of the ABCD trial. Nat Clin Pract Nephrol 2007;3:428-38.
45. de Galan BE, Perkovic V, Ninomiya T, et al. Lowering blood pressure reduces renal events in type 2 diabetes. J Am Soc Nephrol 2009;20:883-92.
46. Ruggenenti P, Fassi A, Ilieva AP, et al. Preventing microalbuminuria in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2004;351:1941-51.
47. Chaturvedi N. Randomised placebo-controlled trial of lisinopril in normotensive patients with insulin-dependent diabetes and normoalbuminuria or microalbuminuria. Lancet 1997;349:1787-92.
48. Bilous R, Chaturvedi N, Sjoile AK, et al. Effect of candesartan on microalbuminuria and albumin excretion rate in diabetes: three randomized trials. Ann Intern Med 2009;151:11-20. W13-W14.
49. Mauer M, Zinman B, Gardiner R, et al. Renal and retinal effects of enalapril and losartan in type 1 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2009;361:40-51.
50. Gerstein HC, Mann JF, Yi Q, et al. Albuminuria and risk of cardiovascular events, death, and heart failure in diabetic and nondiabetic individuals. JAMA 2001;286:421-6.
<PAGE>287