358
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

24. Huang ES, Zhang Q, Gandra N, et al. The effect of comorbid illness and functional status on the expected benefits of intensive glucose control in older patients with type 2 diabetes: a decision analysis. Ann Intern Med 2008;149:11-9.
25. Lee SJ, Boscardin WJ, Cenzer IS, et al. The risks and benefits of implementing glycemic control guidelines in frail older adults with diabetes mel- litus. J Am Geriatr Soc 2011;59:666-72.
26. Miller CK, Edwards L, Kissling G, et al. Nutrition edu- cation improves metabolic outcomes among older adults with diabetes mellitus: results from a random- ized controlled trial. Prev Med 2002;34: 252-9.
27. Leenders M, Verdijk LB, van der Hoeven L. Pro- longed leucine supplementation does not augment muscle mass or affect glycemic control in elderly type 2 diabetic men. J Nutr 2011;141:1070-6.
28. Madden KM, Lockhart C, Cuff D, et al. Short-term aerobic exercise reduces arterial stiffness in older adults with type 2 diabetes, hypertension and hy- percholesterolemia. Diabetes Care 2009;32:1531-5.
29. Ligtenberg PC, Hoekstra JBL, Bol E, et al. Effects of physical training on metabolic control in elderly type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. Clin Sci (Lond) 1997;93:127-35.
30. Ibanez J, Izquierdo M, Arguelles I, et al. Twice- weekly progressive resistance training decreases abdominal fat and improves insulin sensitivity in older men with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2005;28:662-7.
31. Song CH, Petrofsky JS, Lee SW, et al. Effects of an exercise program on balance and trunk proprio- ception in older adults with diabetic neuropathies. Diabet Technol Ther 2011;13:803-11.
32. Dunstan DW, Daly RM, Owen N, et al. Home- based resistance training is not sufficient to maintain improved glycemic control following supervised training in older individuals with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2005;28:3-9.
33. Meneilly GS, Elahi D. Metabolic alterations in middle-aged and elderly lean patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2005;28:1498-9.
34. Meneilly GS, Elliott T, Tessier D, et al, NIDDM in the elderly. Diabetes Care 1996;19:1320-5.
35. Baur DM, Klotsche J, Ole-Petter R, Hamnvik OPR. Type 2 diabetes mellitus and medications for type 2 diabetes mellitus are associated with risk for and mortality from cancer in a German primary care cohort, Metabolism 2011;60:1363-71.
36. Josse RG, Chiasson JL, Ryan EA, et al. Acarbose in the treatment of elderly patients with type 2 diabe- tes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2003;59:37-42.
37. Kahn SE, Haffner SM, Heise MA, et al, ADOPT Study Group. Glycemic durability of rosiglitazone, metformin, or glibenclamide monotherapy. N Engl J Med 2006;355:2427-43.
38. Graham DJ, Ouellet-Hellstrom R, MaCurdy TE, et al. Risk of acute myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure and death in elderly Medicare patients treated with rosiglitazone or pioglitazone. JAMA 2010;304:411-8.
39. Home PD, Pocock SJ, Beck-Nielsen H, et al, RE- CORD Study Team. Rosiglitazone evaluated for cardiovascular outcomes in oral agent combina- tion therapy for type 2 diabetes (RECORD): a multicentre, randomized, open-label trial. Lancet 2009;373:2125-35.
40. Lee CG, Boyko EJ, Barrett-Connor E, et al. Insulin sensitizers may attenuate le mass loss in older men with diabetes. Diabetes Care 2011; 34:2381-6.
41. Pantalone KM, Kattan MW, Yu C, et al. The risk of overall mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes receiving glipizide, glibenclamide, or glimepiride monotherapy. Diabetes Care 2010; 33:1224-9.
42. Schwartz SL, Gerich JE, Marcellari A, et al. Nateg- linide, alone or in combination with metformin, is effective and well tolerated in treatment-naïve el- derly patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Obes Metab 2008;10:652-60.
43. Barzilai N, Guo H, Mahoney EM, et al. Efficacy and tolerability of sitagliptin monotherapy in elderly pa- tients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized, double- blind, placebo-controlled trial. Curr Med Res Opin 2011;27:1049-58.
44. Bode BW, Brett J, Falahati A, Pratley RE. Com- parison of the efficacy and tolerability profile of liraglutide, a once daily human GLP-1 analog in patients with type 2 diabetes 65 and <65 years of age: a pooled analysis from phase III studies. Am J Geriatr Pharmacother 2011;9:423-33.
45. Trimble LA, Sundberg S, Markham L, et al. Value of the clock drawing test to predict problems with insulin skills in older adults. Can J Diabetes 2005;29:102-4.
46. Galic E, Vrtovec M, Bozikov V, et al. The impact of the timing of Humalog Mix25 injections on blood glucose fluctuations in the postprandial period

<PAGE>358