<PAGE>107

## 07 자기관리 교육

15. Toobert D, Hampson S, Glasgow R. The Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities measure: results from 7 studies and a revised scale. Diabetes Care 2000;23:943-55.
16. American Association of Diabetes Educators. Standards for outcome measures of diabetes self-management. Diabetes Educ 2003;29:804-16.
17. Davies MJ, Heller S, Skinner TC, et al. Effectiveness of the diabetes education and self-management for ongoing and newly diagnosed (DESMOND) programme for people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes: cluster randomised controlled trial. BMJ 2008;336:491-5.
18. Christian J, Besessen D, Byers T, et al. Clinic based support to help overweight patients with type 2 diabetes increase physical activity and lose weight. Arch Intern Med 2008;168:141-6.
19. Wens J, Vermeire E, Hearnshaw H, et al. Educational interventions aiming at improving adherence to treatment recommendations in type 2 diabetes: a sub-analysis of a systematic review of randomised controlled trials. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2008;79:377-88.
20. Hawthorne K, Robles Y, Cannings-John R, et al. Culturally appropriate health education for type 2 diabetes in ethnic minority groups: a systematic and narrative review of randomized control trials. Diabet Med 2010;27:613-23.
21. Cavenaugh K, Wallston KA, Gerretsadik T, et al. Addressing literacy and numeracy to improve diabetes care. Diabetes Care 2009;32:2149-55.
22. Osborn C, Cavenaugh K, Wallston KA, et al. Diabetes Numeracy: an overlooked factor in understanding racial disparities in glycemic control. Diabetes Care 2009;32:1614-9.
23. Duran A, Martin P, Runkle I, et al. Benefits of self-monitoring blood glucose in the management of new-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus: the St. Carlos Study, a prospective randomized clinic-based interventional study with parallel groups. J Diabetes 2010;2:203-11.
24. Yki-Jarvinen H, Juurinen L, Alvarsson M, et al. Initiate insulin by aggressive titration and education (INITIATE): a randomized study to compare initiation of insulin combination therapy in type 2 diabetic patients individually and in groups. Diabetes Care 2007;30:1364-9.
25. Krousel-Wood MA, Berger L, Jiang X, et al. Does home-based exercise improve body mass index in patients with type 2 diabetes? Results of a feasibility trial. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2008;79:230-6.
26. Moriyama M, Nakano M, Kuroe Y, et al. Efficacy of a self-management education program for people with type 2 diabetes: results of a 12 month trial. Jpn J Nurs Sci 2009;6:51-63.
27. Farmer AJ, Wade AN, French DP, et al. Blood glucose self-monitoring in type 2 diabetes: a randomised controlled trial. Health Technol Assess 2009;13: iii-iv,ix-xi,1-50.
28. Magwood G, Zapka J, Jenkins C. A review of systematic reviews evaluating diabetes interventions. Focus on quality of life and disparities. Diabetes Educ 2008;34:242-65.
29. Ismail K, Winkley K, Rae-Hesketh S. Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials of psychological interventions to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. Lancet 2004;363:1589-97.
30. Weinger K, Beverly E, Lee Y, et al. The effect of a structured behavioral intervention in poorly controlled diabetes. Arch Intern Med 2011;171:1990-8.
31. Kim M, Han H, Song H, et al. A community-based, culturally tailored behavioral intervention for Korean Americans with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Educ 2009;35:986-94.
32. Mulcahy K, Maryniuk M, Peeples M, et al. Diabetes self-management education core outcomes measures. Diabetes Educ 2003;29:768-803.
33. Gambling T, Long A. The realisation of patient-centered care during a 3 year proactive telephone counselling self-care intervention for diabetes. Patient Educ Couns 2010;80:219-26.
34. Norris SL, Engelgau MM, Narayan KMV. Effectiveness of self-management training in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials. Diabetes Care 2001;24:561-87.
35. Nam S, Chesla C, Stotts NA, et al. Barriers to diabetes management: patient and provider factors. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2011;91:923-9.
36. Armour TA, Norris SL, Jack Jr L, et al. The effectiveness of family interventions in people with diabetes mellitus: a systematic review. Diabet Med 2005;22:1295-305.
37. Piatt G, Anderson R, Brooks M, et al. 3-Year follow-up of clinical and behavioural improvements following a multifaceted diabetes care intervention: results of a randomized controlled trial. Diabetes Educ 2010;36:301-9.