11 임상영양 치료 149

fatty acids and vitamin E after myocardial infarc-tion: results of the GISSI-Prevenzione trial. Grup-poItaliano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza nell’Infarto miocardico. Lancet 1999;354:447-55.
70. Kromhout D, Giltay EJ, Geleijnse JM, Alpha Omega Trial Group. n-3 fatty acids and cardiovascular events after myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med 2010;363:2015-26.
71. ORIGIN Trial Investigators, Bosch J, Gerstein HC, Dagenais GR, et al. n-3 fatty acids and cardiovascu-lar outcomes in patients with dysglycemia. N Engl J Med 2012;367:309-18.
72. Rizos EC, Ntzani EE, Bika E, et al. Association be-tween omega-3 fatty acid supplementation and risk of major cardiovascular disease events: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA 2012;308:1024-33.
73. Hamdy O, Horton ES. Protein content in diabetes nutrition plan. Curr Diab Rep 2011;11:111-9.
74. Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine. Dietary Reference Intakes for Energy, Carbohy-drate, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids. Washington, DC: National Acad-emies Press; 2005.
75. Hansen HP, Tauber-Lassen E, Jensen BR, Parving HH. Effect of dietary protein restriction on progno-sis in patients with diabetic nephropathy. Kidney Int 2002;62:220-8.
76. Pan Y, Guo LL, Jin HM. Low-protein diet for dia-betic nephropathy: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Am J Clin Nutr 2008;88:660-6.
77. Azadbakht L, Esmaillzadeh A. Soy-protein con-sumption and kidney-related biomarkers among type 2 diabetics: a crossover, randomized clinical trial. J Ren Nutr 2009;19:479-86.
78. Azadbakht L, Atabak S, Esmaillzadeh A. Soy pro-tein intake, cardiorenal indices, and C-reactive protein in type 2 diabetes with nephropathy: a lon-gitudinal randomized clinical trial. Diabetes Care 2008;31:648-54.
79. Teixeira SR, Tappenden KA, Carson L, et al. Iso-lated soy protein consumption reduces urinary albumin excretion and improves the serum lipid profile in men with type 2 diabetes mellitus and nephropathy. J Nutr 2004;134:1874-80.
80. de Mello VD, Zelmanovitz T, Perassolo MS, et al. Withdrawal of red meat from the usual diet re-duces albuminuria and improves serum fatty acid profile in type 2 diabetes patients with macroalbu-minuria. Am J Clin Nutr 2006;83:1032-8.
81. Brodsky IG, Robbins DC, Hiser E, et al. Effects of low-protein diets on protein metabolism in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patients with early ne-phropathy. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1992;75:351-7.
82. Rodrigues-Villar C, Pérez-Heras A, Mercadé I, et al. Effects of olive oil on lipid profiles and blood glu-cose in type 2 diabetic patients. Diabet Med 2004; 21:142-9.
83. Brehm BJ, Lattin BL, Summer SS, et al. One-year comparison of a high-monounsaturated fat diet with a high-carbohydrate diet in type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2009;32:215-20.
84. Brunerova L, Smejkalova V, Potockova J, et al. A comparison of the influence of a high-fat diet en-riched in monounsaturated fatty acids and conven-tional diet on weight loss and metabolic parameters in obese non-diabetic and Type 2 diabetic patients. Diabet Med 2007;24:533-40.
85. De Natale C, Annuzzi G, Bozzetto L, et al. Effects of a plant-based high-carbohydrate/high fibre diet versus high monounsaturated fat/low carbohydrate diet on postprandial lipids in type 2 diabetic pa-tients. Diabetes Care 2009;32:2168-73.
86. Kodama S, Saito K, Tanaka S, et al. Influence of fat and carbohydrate proportions on the metabolic profile in patients with type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Care 2009;32:959-65.
87. Papakonstantinou E, Zampelas A. The effect of di-etary protein intake on coronary heart disease risk. J Hum Nutr Diet 2010;23:183-9.
88. Paddon-Jones D, Westman E, Mattes RD, et al. Pro-tein, weight management, and satiety. Am J Clin Nutr 2008;87:1558Se61S.
89. Lejeune MP, Westerterp KR, Adam TC, et al. Ghre-lin and glucagon-like peptide1 concentrations, 24-h satiety, and energy and substrate metabolism dur-ing a high-protein diet and measured in a respira-tion chamber. Am J Clin Nutr 2006;83:89-94.
90. Mozaffarian D, Micha R, Wallace S. Effects on coro-nary heart disease of increasing polyunsaturated fat in place of saturated fat: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. PLoS Med 2010;7:e1000252.
91. Jakobsen MU, O’Reilly EJ, Heitmann BL, et al. Ma-jor types of dietary fat and risk of coronary heart disease: a pooled analysis of 11 cohort studies. Am J Clin Nutr 2009;89:1425-32.
92. Howard BV, Van Horn L, Hsia J, et al. Low-fat di-etary pattern and risk of cardiovascular disease: the
<PAGE>149