# 17 당뇨병과 정신 건강
42. American Psychiatric Association, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. 4th ed, text revision, Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Association;2000.
43. Iafusco D, Vanelli M, Gugliotta M, et al, Prevalence of eating disorders in young patients with type 1 diabetes from two different Italian cities. Diabetes Care 2004;27:2278.
44. Morse S, Ciechanowski P, et al, Isn't this just bedtime snacking? The potential adverse effects of night-eating symptoms on treatment adherence and outcomes in patients with diabetes. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1800-4.
45. Haupt DW, Newcomber JW. Hyperglycemia and antipsychotic medications. J Clin Psych 2001;62:15-26.
46. Saddichha S, Manjunatha N, Ameen S, et al. Diabetes and schizophrenia: effect of disease or drug? Results from a randomized, double-blind, controlled prospective study in first-episode schizophrenia. Acta Psychiatr Scand 2008;117:342-7.
47. McEvoy JP, Meyer JM, Goff DC, et al. Prevalence of the metabolic syndrome in patients with schizophrenia: baseline results from the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness (CATIE) schizophrenia trial and comparison with national estimates from NHANES III. Schiz Res 2005;80:19-32.
48. Meyer JM, Nasrallah HA. Medical Illness and Schizophrenia. 2nd ed, Arlington, Virginia (VA): American Psychiatric Publishing, Inc.; 2009.
49. Smith R. The macrophage theory of depression. Med Hypothesis 1991;35:298-306.
50. Fernandez-Real JM, Pickup JC. Innate immunity, insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Trends Endocrinol Metab 2008;19:10-6.
51. Serretti A, Mandelli L. Antidepressants and body weight: a comprehensive review and meta-analysis. J Clin Psychiatry 2010;71:1259-72.
52. Spoelstra JA, Stolk RP, Cohen D, et al. Antipsychotic drugs may worsen metabolic control in type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Clin Psychiatry 2004;65:674-8.
53. Newcomer JW, Haupt DW. The metabolic effects of antipsychotic medications. Can J Psychiatry 2006;51:480-91.
54. Lambert TJ, Chapman LH. Diabetes, psychotic disorders and antipsychotic therapy: a consensus statement. Med J Aust 2004;181:544-8.
55. American Diabetes Association, American Psychiatric Association, American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, et al, Consensus Development Conference on Antipsychotic Drugs and Obesity and Diabetes. Diabetes Care 2004;27:596-601.
56. De Nayer A, De Hert M, Scheen A, Van Gaal L, Peuskens J. Belgian consensus on metabolic problems associated with atypical antipsychotics. Int J Psychiatry Clin Pract 2005;9:130-7.
57. Snoek FJ, Kersch NY, Eldrup E, et al. Monitoring of Individual Needs in Diabetes(MIND): baseline data from the Cross-National Diabetes Attitudes, Wishes, and Needs (DAWN) MIND study. Diabetes Care 2011;34:601-3.
58. Peyrot M, Rubin RR, Lauritzen T, et al. Psychosocial problems and barriers to improved diabetes management: results of the Cross-National Diabetes Attitudes, Wishes and Needs (DAWN) Study. Diabetes Med 2005;22:1379-85.
59. Goebel-Fabbri AE, Fikkan J, Franko DL, et al. Insulin restriction and associated morbidity and mortality in women with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2008;31:415-9.
60. Fisher L, Glasgow RE. A call for more effectively integrating behavioral and social science principles into comprehensive diabetes care. Diabetes Care 2007;30:2746-9.
61. Malik JA, Koot HM. Explaining the adjustment of adolescents with type 1 diabetes: role of diabetes- specific and psychosocial factors. Diabetes Care 2009;32:774-9.
62. Zhang CX, Tse LA, Ye XQ, et al. Moderating effects of coping styles on anxiety and depressive symptoms caused by psychological stress in Chinese patients with Type 2 diabetes. Diabet Med 2009;26:1282-8.
63. Hampson SE, Tildesley E, Andrews JA, et al. The relation of change in hostility and sociability during childhood to substance use in mid adolescence. J Res Pers 2010;44:103-14.
64. Luyckx K, Seiffge-Krenke I, Hampson SE. Glycemic control, coping, and internalizing and externalizing symptoms in adolescents with type 1 diabetes: a cross-lagged longitudinal approach. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1424-9.
65. Anderson RM. Is the problem of compliance all in our heads? Diabetes Educ 1985;11:31-4.
66. Gonzalez JS, Peyrot M, McCarl LA, et al. Depression and diabetes treatment nonadherence: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Care 2008;31:2398-403.
67. Gonzalez JS, Safren SA, Delahanty LM, et al. Symptoms of depression prospectively predict poorer
<PAGE>213