114 KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

10. The Emerging Risk Factor Collaboration. Diabetes mellitus, fasting blood glucose concentration, and risk of vascular disease: a collaborative meta-analysis of 102 prospective studies. Lancet 2010; 75:2215-22.
11. Ohkubo Y, Kishikawa H, Araki E, et al. Intensive insulin therapy prevents the progression of diabetic microvascular complications in Japanese patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: a randomized prospective 6-yearstudy. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 1995;28:103-17.
12. Hanefeld M, Fischer S, Julius U, et al. Risk factors for myocardial infarction and death in newly detected NIDDM: the Diabetes Intervention Study, 11-yearfollow-up. Diabetologia 1996;39:1577-83.
13. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Research Group. The effect of intensive treatment of diabetes on the development and progression of long-term complications in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. N Engl J Med1993;329:977-86.
14. United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKP DS). Effect of intensive blood glucose control with metformin on complications in overweight patients with type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 34). Lancet 1998;352: 854-65.
15. The ADVANCE Collaborative Group. Intensive blood glucose control and vascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008; 358:2560-72.
16. Ismail-Beigi F, Craven T, Banerji MA, et al, ACCORD Trial Group. Effect of intensive treatment of hyperglycaemia on microvascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes: an analysis of the ACCORD randomized trial. Lancet 2010;376:419-30.
17. The Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes Study Group. Effects of intensive glucose lowering in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;358:2545-59.
18. Duckworth W, Abraira C, Moritz T, et al, VADT Investigators. Glucose control and vascular complications in veterans with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2009;360:129-39.
19. Moritz T, Duckworth W, Abraira C. Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial: corrections. N Engl J Med 2009;361: 1024-5.
20. TheWriting Teamfor the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/Epidemiologyof Diabetes Interventions and Complications Research Group. Effects of intensive therapy on the microvascular complications of type 1 diabetes mellitus. JAMA 2002;287:2563-9.
21. Martin CL, Albers J, Herman WH, et al. Neuropathy among the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial cohort 8 Years after trial completion. Diabetes Care 2006;29:340-4.
22. Holman RR, Paul SK, Bethel MA, et al. 10-Year follow-up of intensive glucose control in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;359:1577-89.
23. Nathan DM, Cleary PA, Backlund JY, et al. Intensive diabetes treatment and cardiovascular disease in patients with type 1 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2005; 353:2643-53.
24. The ACCORD Study Group and ACCORD Eye Study Group. Effects of medical therapies on retinopathy progression in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2010;363:233-44.
25. Boussageon R, Bejan-Angoulvant T, SaadatianElahi M, et al. Effect of intensive glucose lowering treatment on all cause mortality, cardiovascular death, and microvascular events in type 2 diabetes: meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ 2011;343:d4169.
26. Hemmingsen B, Lund SS, Gluud C, et al. Targeting intensive glycaemic control versus targeting conventional glycaemic control for type 2 diabetes mellitus. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2011;6: CD008143.
27. Calles-Escandón J, Lovato LC, Simons-Morton DG, et al. Effect of intensive compared with standard glycemia treatment strategies on mortality by baseline subgroup characteristics: the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial. Diabetes Care 2010;33:721-7.
28. Reaven PD, Moritz TE, Schwenke DC, et al. Intensive glucose-lowering therapy reduces cardiovascular disease events in veterans affairs diabetes trial participants with lower calcified coronary atherosclerosis. Diabetes 2009;58:2642-8.
29. Bonds DE, Miller ME, Bergenstal RM, et al. The association between symptomatic, severe hypoglycaemia and mortality in type 2 diabetes: retrospective epidemiological analysis of the ACCORD study. BMJ 2010;340:4909.
30. Zoumpas S, Patel A, Chalmers J, et al. Severe hypoglycemia and risks of vascular events and death. N Eng J Med 2010;363:1410-8.
31. Riddle MC, Ambrosius WT, Brillo DJ, et al, Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) Investigators. Epidemiologic relationships between A1C and all-cause mortality during a median 3.4-year follow-up of glycemic treatment in the ACCORD trial. Diabetes Care 2010;33:983-90.
<PAGE>114