11 임상영양 치료 147

tional intake of 2868 IDDM patients from 30 centres in Europe. EURODIAB IDDM Complications Study Group. Diabetologia 1996;39:929-39.
25. Glazier RH, Bajcar J, Kennie NR, et al. A systematic review of interventions to improve diabetes care in socially disadvantaged populations. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1675-88.
26. Wing RR. Weight loss in the management of type 2 diabetes. In: Gerstein HC, Haynes B, editors. Evidence-Based Diabetes Care. Ontario, Canada: B,G,Decker, Inc; 2000. p. 252-76.
27. Tuomilehto J, Lindström J, Eriksson JG, et al, Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study Group. Prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus by changes in lifestyle among subjects with impaired glucose tolerance. N Engl J Med 2001;344:1343-50.
28. Knowler WC, Barrett-Connor E, Fowler SE, et al, Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. Reduction in the incidence of type 2 diabetes with lifestyle intervention or metformin. N Engl J Med 2002;346:393-403.
29. Look AHEAD Research GroupWing RR. Long-term effects of a lifestyle intervention on weight and cardiovascular risk factors in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus: four-year results of the Look AHEAD trial. Arch Intern Med2010;170:1566-75.
30. Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group-Knowler WC, Fowler SE, Hamman RF, et al. 10-year follow-up of diabetes incidence and weight loss in the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study. Lancet 2009;374:1677-86. Published erratum in: Lancet. 2009;374:2054.
31. Lindström J, Illanne-Parikka P, Peltonen M, et al, Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study Group. Sus-tained reduction in the incidence of type 2 diabetes by lifestyle intervention: follow-up of the Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study. Lancet 2006;368:1673-9.
32. Institute of Medicine, Food and Nutrition Board. Dietary Reference Intakes for Energy, Carbohy-drate, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids. Washington, DC: National Academies Press; 2002.
33. Kirk JK, Graves DR, Carven TE, et al. Restricted carbohydrate diet in patients with type 2 diabetes: A meta-analysis. J Am Diet Assoc 2008;108:91-100.
34. Barnard ND, Cohen J, Jenkins DJ, et al. A low-fat vegan diet improves glycemic control and cardio-vascular risk factors in a randomized clinical trial in individuals with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1777-83.
35. Jenkins DJ, Wolever TM, Taylor RH, et al. Glyce-mic index of foods: a physiological basis for carbo-hydrate exchange. Am J Clin Nutr 1981;34:362-6.
36. Atkinson FS, Foster-Powell K, Brand-Miller JC. In-ternational tables of glycemic index and glycemic load values. Diabetes Care 2008;31:2281-3.
37. Brand-Miller J, Hayne S, Petocz P, et al. Low gly-cemic index diets in the management of diabetes: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Diabetes Care 2003;26:2261-7.
38. Opperman AM, Venter CS, Oosthuizen W, et al, Meta-analysis of the health effects of using the gly-caemic index in meal-planning. Br J Nutr 2004;92: 367-81.
39. Thomas DE, Elliott EJ. The use of low-glycaemic index diets in diabetes control. Br J Nutr 2010;104: 797-802.
40. Wolever TM, Gibbs AL, Mehling C, et al. The Ca-nadian Trial of Carbohydrates in Diabetes(CCD), a 1-y controlled trial of low-glycemic-index dietary carbohydrate in type 2 diabetes: no effect on gly-cated hemoglobin but reduction in C-reactive pro-tein. Am J Clin Nutr 2008;87:114-25.
41. Jenkins DJ, Kendall CW, McKeown-Eyssen G, et al. Effect of a low-glycemic index or a high-cereal fiber diet on type 2 diabetes: a randomized trial. JAMA 2008;300:2742-53.
42. Wolever TM, Mehling C, Chiasson JL, et al. Low glycaemic index diet and disposition index in type 2 diabetes(the Canadian trial of carbohydrates in diabetes): a randomised controlled trial. Diabetolo-gia 2008;51:1607-15.
43. Amano Y, Sugiyama M, Lee JS, et al. Glycemic index-based nutritional education improves blood glucose control in Japanese adults: a randomized controlled trial. Diabetes Care 2007;30:1874-6.
44. Ma Y, Olendzki BC, Merriam PA, et al, A random-ized clinical trial comparing low-glycemic index versus ADA dietary education among individuals with type 2 diabetes. Nutrition 2008;24:45-56.
45. Anderson JW, Randles KM, Kendall CW, et al. Carbohydrate and fiber recommendations for in-dividuals with diabetes: a quantitative assessment and meta-analysis of the evidence. J Am Coll Nutr 2004;23:5-17.
46. Jacobs Jr DR, Meyer KA, Kushi LH, et al. Whole-grain intake may reduce the risk of ischemic heart disease death in post-menopausal women: the
<PAGE>147