## 31 발기부전
in men with type II diabetes mellitus, Diabetologia 2001;44:1296-301.
50. Goldstein I, Young JM, Fischer J, et al. Vardenafil, a new phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor, in the treatment of erectile dysfunction in men with diabetes: a multicenter double-blind placebo-controlled fixed-dose study. Diabetes Care 2003;26:777-83.
51. Sáenz de Tejada I, Anglin G, Knight JR, et al. Effects of tadalafil on erectile dysfunction in men with diabetes. Diabetes Care 2002;25:2159-64.
52. Carson CC, Lue TF. Phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction. BJU Int 2005;96:257-80.
53. Hatzichristou D, Gambla M, Rubio-Aurioles E, et al. Efficacy of tadalafil once daily in men with diabetes mellitus and erectile dysfunction. Diabet Med 2008;25:138-46.
54. Buvat J, Hermann, et al. Efficacy and safety of two dosing regimens of tadalafiland patterns of sexual activity in men with diabetes mellitus and erectile dysfunction: Scheduled Use vs. On-Demand Regimen Evaluation(SURE) study in 14 European countries. J Sex Med 2006;3:512-20.
55. Konstantinopoulos A, Giannitsas K, Athanasopoulos A, et al. The impact of daily sildenafil on levels of soluble molecular markers of endothelial function in plasma in patients with erectile dysfunction. Expert Opin Pharmacother 2009;10:155-60.
56. Canguven O, Bailen J, Fredriksson W, et al. Combination of vacuum erection device and PDE5 inhibitors as salvage therapy in PDE5 inhibitor non-responders with erectile dysfunction. J Sex Med 2009;6:2561-7.
57. Briganti A, Salonia A, Gallina A, et al. Drug insight: oral phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction. Nat Clin Pract Urol 2005;2:239-47.
58. DeBusk R, Drury Y, Goldstein I, et al. Management of sexual dysfunction in patients with cardiovascular disease: recommendations of the Princeton Consensus Panel. Am J Cardiol 2000;86:175-81.
59. Brock G, Glina S, Moncada I, et al. Likelihood of tadalafil-associated adverse events in integrated multiclinical trial database: classification tree analysis in men with erectile dysfunction. Urology 2009;73:756-61.
60. Carson CC, Mulcahy JJ, Govier FE. Efficacy, safety and patient satisfaction outcomes of the AMS 700CX inflatable penile prosthesis: results of a long-term-multicenter study. J Urol 2000;164:376-80.
61. Isidro ML. Sexual dysfunction in men with type 2 diabetes. Postgrad Med 2012;88:152-9.
<PAGE>319