304 KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

45. and efficacy of tapentadol ER in patients with pain- ful diabetic peripheral neuropathy: results of a randomized-withdrawal, placebo-controlled trial. CMRO 2011;27:151-62.
46. Yuen KC, Baker NR, Rayman G, Treatment of chronic painful diabetic neuropathy with isosorbide dinitrate spray: a double- blind placebo-controlled crossover study. Diabetes Care 2002;25:1699-703.
47. Agrawal RP, Choudhary R, Sharma P, et al. Glyc- eryl trinitrate spray in the management of painful diabetic neuropathy: a randomized double blind placebo-controlled cross-over study. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2007;77:161-7.
48. Low PA, Opfer-Gehrking TL, Dyck PJ, et al. Dou- ble-blind, placebo-controlled study of the applica- tion of capsaicin cream in chronic distal painful polyneuropathy. Pain 1995;62:163-8.
49. The Capsaicin Study Group. Treatment of pain- ful diabetic neuropathy with topical capsaicin. A multicenter, double-blind, vehicle-controlled study. Arch Intern Med 1991;151:2225-9.
50. Tandan R, Lewis GA, Krusinski PB, et al. Topical capsaicin in painful diabetic neuropathy. Con- trolled study with long-term follow-up. Diabetes Care 1992;15:8-14.
51. Agrawal RP, Goswami J, Jain S, et al. Management of diabetic neuropathy by sodium valproate and glyceryl trinitrate spray: a prospective double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2008;83:371-8.
52. Kumar D, Alvaro MS, Julka IS, et al. Diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Effectiveness of electro- therapy and amitriptyline for symptomatic relief. Diabetes Care 1998;21:1322-5.
53. Bosi E, Conti M, Vermigli C, et al, Effectiveness of frequency-modulated electromagnetic neural stimulation in the treatment of painful diabetic neu- ropathy. Diabetologia 2005;48:817-23.
54. Chaudhry V, Stevens JC, Kincaid J, et al. Practice advisory: utility of surgical decompression for treat- ment of diabetic neuropathy: report of the Thera- peutics and Technology Assessment Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology. Neurol- ogy 2006;66:1805-8.