### 33 당뇨병과 임신
<PAGE>349

85. Singhi S. Effect of intrapartum glucose therapy on neonatal blood glucose levels and neurobehavioral status of hypoglycemic term newborn infants. J Perinat Med 1988;16:217-24.
86. Koh THHG, Aynsley-Green A, Tarbit M, Eyre JA. Neural dysfunction during hypoglycemia. Arch Dis Child 1988;63:1353-8.
87. Kinnala A, Rikalainen H, Lapinleimu H, et al. Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging and ultraso- nography findings after neonatal hypoglycemia. Pediatrics 1999;103:724-9.
88. Stenninger E, Flink R, Eriksson B, Sahlen C. Long term neurological dysfunction and neonatal hypo- glycaemia after diabetic pregnancy. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed 1998;79:F174-5.
89. Kenepp NB, Shelley WC, Gabbe S, et al. Fetal and neonatal hazards of maternal hydration with 5% dextrose before caesarean section. Lancet 1982; 1:1150-2.
90. Miodovnik M, Mimouni F, Tsang RC, et al. Man- agement of the insulin-dependent diabetic during labour and delivery. Am J Perinatol 1987;4:106-14.
91. Brown S, Kyne-Grzebalski D, Mwangi B, Taylor R. Effect of management policy upon 120 type 1 diabetic pregnancies: policy decisions in practice. Diabet Med 1999;16:573-8.
92. Barrett HL, Morris J, McElduff A. Watchful waiting: a management protocol for maternal glycemia in the peripartum period. Aust N Z J Obstet Gynecol 2009;49:162-7.
93. Rosenberg VA, Eglinton GS, Rauch ER, et al. Intra- partum maternal glycemic control in women with insulin requiring diabetes: a randomized clinical trial of rotating fluids versus insulin drip. Am J Ob- stet Gynecol 2006;195:1095-9.
94. Feig DS, Lipscombe LL, Tomlinson G, Blumer I. Breastfeeding predicts the risk of childhood obesity in a multi-ethnic cohort of women with diabetes. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med 2011;24:511-5.
95. Ergin T, Lembet A, Duran H, et al. Does insulin secretion in patients with one abnormal glucose tolerance test value mimic gestational diabetes mel- litus? Am J Obstet Gynecol 2002;186:204-9.
96. Pallardo F, Herranz L, Garcia-Ingelmo T, et al. Early postpartum metabolic assessment in women with prior gestational diabetes. Diabetes Care 1999; 22:1053-8.
97. Oldfield MD, Donley P, Walwyn L, et al. Long term prognosis of women with gestational diabetes in a multiethnic population. Postgrad Med J 2007;83: 426-30.
73. Mecacci F, Carignani L, Cioni R, et al. Maternal metabolic control and perinatal outcome in women with gestational diabetes treated with regular or lispro insulin: comparison with non-diabetic preg- nant women. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biology 2003;111:19-24.
74. Pettitt DJ. Comparison of an insulin analog, insulin aspart, and regular human insulin with no insulin in gestational diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care 2003;26:183-6.
75. Pettitt DJ, Ospina P, Howard C, et al. Efficacy, safety and lack of immunogenicity of insulin aspart compared with regular human insulin for women with gestational diabetes mellitus. Diabet Med 2007;24:129-55.
76. Singh SR, Ahmad F, Lal A, et al. Efficacy and safety of insulin analogues for the management of diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis. CMAJ 2009;180:385-97.
77. Chmait R, Dinise T, Moore T. Prospective observa- tional study to establish predictors of glibenclamide success in women with gestational diabetes mel- litus. J Perinatol 2004;24:617-22.
78. Elliott BD, Schenker S, Langer O, et al. Compara- tive placental transport of oral hypoglycemic agents in humans: a model of human placental drug trans- fer. Am J Obstet Gynecol 1994;171: 653.
79. Kahn BF, Davies JK, Lynch AM, et al. Predictors of glibenclamide failure in the treatment of gestational diabetes. Obstet Gynecol 2006;107:1303-9.
80. Jacobson GF, Ramos GA, Ching JY, et al. Compari- son of glibenclamide and insulin for the manage- ment of gestational diabetes in a large managed care organization. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2005;193: 118-24.
81. Tertti K, Ulla E, Tero V, Tapani R. Comparison of metformin and insulin in the treatment of gesta- tional diabetes: a retrospective, case-control study. Rev Diabet Stud 2008;5:95-101.
82. Hughes RC, Gardiner SJ, Begg EI, Zhang M. Effect of pregnancy on the pharmacokinetics of metfor- min. Diabet Med 2006;23:323-6.
83. Obenshain SS, Adam PAJ, King KC, et al. Human fetal insulin response to sustained maternal hyper- glycemia. N Engl J Med 1970;283:566-70.
84. Adamkin DH, Committee on Fetus and Newborn. Clinical report-postnatal glucose homeostasis in late-preterm and term infants. Pediatrics 2011;127: 575-9.