KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

49. Carchman RM, Dechert-Zeger M, Calikoglu AS, Harris BD. A new challenge in pediatric obesity: pediatric hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome. Pediatr Crit Care Med 2005;6:20-4.
50. Krakoff J, Lindsay RS, Looker HC, et al. Incidence of retinopathy and nephropathy in youth-onset compared with adult-onset type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2003;26:76-81.
51. Yokoyama H, Okudaira M, Otani T, et al. Existence of early-onset NIDDM Japanese demonstrating severe diabetic complications. Diabetes Care 1997; 20:844-7.
52. Eppens MC, Craig ME, Cusumano J, et al. Prevalence of diabetes complications in adolescents with type 2 compared with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1300-6.
53. Maahs DM, Snively BM, Bell RA, et al. Higher prevalence of elevated albumin excretion in youth with type 2 than type 1 diabetes: the SEARCH for diabetes in youth study. Diabetes Care 2007;30:2593-8.
54. Sellers EA, Blydt-Hansen TD, Dean HJ, et al. Macroalbuminuria and renalpathology in first nation youth with type 2 diabetes, Diabetes Care 2009;32: 786-90.
55. Sellers EAC, Yung G, Dean HJ. Dyslipidemia and other cardiovascular risk factors in a Canadian First Nation pediatric population with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Pediatr Diabetes 2007;8:384-90.
56. Kershnar AK, Daniels SR, Imperatore G, et al. Lipid abnormalities are prevalent in youth with type 1 and type 2 diabetes: the SEARCH for diabetes in youth study. J Pediatr 2006;149:314-9.
57. National Cholesterol Education Program(NCEP): highlights of the report of the expert panel on blood cholesterol levels in children and adolescents. Pediatrics1992;89:495-501.
58. Ettinger LM, Freeman K, DiMartino-Nardi JR, Flynn JT. Microalbuminuria and abnormal ambulatory blood pressure in adolescents with type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Pediatr 2005;147:67-73.
59. Norris AW, Svoren BM. Complications and comorbidities of type 2 diabetes. Pediatr Ann 2005;34: 710-8.
60. Nadeau KJ, Klingensmith G, Zeitler P. Type 2 diabetes in children is frequently associated with elevated alanine aminotransferase. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr 2005;41:94-8.

<PAGE>330