162
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines
## 참고 문헌
1.  Turner RC, Cull CA, Frighi V, et al. Glycemic control with diet, sulfonylurea, metformin, or insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: progressive requirement for multiple therapies (UKPDS 49). JAMA 1999;281:2005-12.
2.  Klein R, Klein BE, Moss SE, et al. The Wisconsin epidemiological study of diabetic retinopathy. III. Prevalence and risk of diabetic retinopathy when age at diagnosis is 30 or more years. Arch Ophthalmol 1984;102:527-32.
3.  UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Group. Intensive blood-glucose control with sulphonylureas or insulin compared with conventional treatment and risk of complications in patients with type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 33). Lancet 1998;352:837-53.
4.  Bloomgarden ZT, Dodis R, Viscoli CM, et al. Lower baseline glycemia reduces apparent oral agent glucose-lowering efficacy: a meta-regression analysis. Diabetes Care 2006;29:2137-9.
5.  Sherifali D, Nerenberg K, Pullenayegum E, et al. The effect of oral antidiabetic agents on A1C levels: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1859-64.
6.  Monnier L, Lapinski H, Colette C. Contributions of fasting and postprandial plasma glucose increments to the overall diurnal hyperglycemia of type 2 diabetic patients: variations with increasing levels of HbA(1c). Diabetes Care 2003;26:881-5.
7.  Chiasson J-L, Josse RG, Hunt JA, et al. The efficacy of acarbose in the treatment of patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. A multicenter controlled clinical trial. Ann Intern Med 1994;121: 28-35.
8.  Aschner P, Kipnes MS, Lunceford JK, et al. Effect of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor sitagliptin as monotherapy on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2006;29:2632-7.
9.  Charbonnel B, Karasik A, Liu J, et al. Efficacy and safety of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor sitagliptin added to ongoing metformin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2006;29:2638-43.
10. Weiss SR, Cheng SL, Kourides IA, et al, Inhaled Insulin Phase II Study Group. Inhaled insulin provides improved glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled with oral agents: a randomized controlled trial. Arch Intern Med 2003;27:2277-82.
11. Dailey G, Rosenstock J, Moses RG, et al. Insulin glulisine provides improved glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2004;27: 2363-8.
12. Roach P, Yue L, Arora V. Improved postprandial glycemic control during treatment with Humalog Mix25, a novel protamine-based insulin lispro formulation. Humalog Mix25 Study Group. Diabetes Care 1999;22:1258-61.
13. Boehm BO, Home PD, Behrend C, et al. Premixed insulin aspart 30 vs. premixed human insulin 30/70 twice daily: a randomized trial in type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients. Diabet Med 2002;19:393-9.
14. Ahren B, Gomis R, Standl E, et al. Twelve- and 52-week efficacy of the dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor LAF237 in metformin-treated patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2004;27:2874-80.
15. Derosa G, Mugellini A, Ciccarelli L, et al. Comparison between repaglinide and glimepiride in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a one-year, randomized, double-blind assessment of metabolic parameters and cardiovascular risk factors. Clin Ther 2003;25:472-84.
16. Ristic S, Collober-Maugeais C, Pecher E, et al. Comparison of nateglinide and gliclazide in combination with metformin, for treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on maximum doses of metformin alone. Diabet Med 2006;23:757-62.
17. Ross SA, Zinman B, Campos RV, et al. A comparative study of insulin lispro and human regular insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and secondary failure of oral hypoglycemic agents. Clin Invest Med 2001;24:292-8.
18. Rosenfalck AM, Thorsby P, Kjems L, et al. Improved postprandial glycaemic control with insulin aspart in type 2 diabetic patients treated with insulin. Acta Diabetol 2000;37:41-6.
19. Sumeet R, Singh SR, Ahmad F, et al. Efficacy and safety of insulin analogues for the management of diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis. CMAJ 2009; 180:385-97.
20. Mannucci E, Monami M, Marchionni N. Short-acting insulin analogues vs regular human insulin in type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Obes Metab 2009;11:53-9.