346
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

## 참고 문헌

1.  Persson M, Norman M, Hanson U. Obstetric and perinatal outcomes in type 1 diabetic pregnancies: a large, population-based study. Diabetes Care 2009;32:2005-9.
2.  Hernandez TL, Friedman JE, Van Pelt RE, Barbour LA. Patterns of glycemia in normal pregnancy: should the current therapeutic targets be challenged? Diabetes Care 2011;34:1660-8.
3.  HAPO Study Cooperative Research Group. Hyperglycemia and adverse pregnancy outcomes. N Engl J Med 2008;35:1991-2002.
4.  Harmon KA, Gerard L, Jensen DR, et al. Continuous glucose profiles in obese and normal-weight pregnant women on a controlled diet: metabolic determinants of fetal growth. Diabetes Care 2011; 34:2198-204.
5.  Bell R, Bailey K, Cresswell T, et al. Trends in prevalence and outcomes of pregnancy in women with pre-existing type I and type II diabetes. BJOG 2008;115:445-52.
6.  Murphy HR, Roland JM, Skinner TC, et al. Effectiveness of a regional pre-pregnancy care program in women with type 1 and type 2 diabetes: benefits beyond glycemic control. Diabetes Care 2010;33:2514-20.
7.  Tripathi A, Rankin J, Aarvold J, et al. Preconception counseling in women with diabetes: a population-based study in the North of England. Diabetes Care 2010;33:586-8.
8.  Lipscombe LL, McLaughlin HM, Wu W, Feig DS. Pregnancy planning in women with pregestational diabetes. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med 2011;24: 1095-101.
9.  Handisurya AM, Bander-Todesca D, Schober E, et al. Risk factor profile and pregnancy outcome in women with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Womens Health 2011;20:263-71.
10. Watkins ML, Rasmussen SA, Honein MA, et al. Maternal obesity and risk for birth defects. Pediatrics 2003;111(5 pt 2):1152-8.
11. Wald NJ, Law MR, Morris JK, Wald DS. Quantifying the effect of folic acid. Lancet 2001;358: 2069-73. Published erratum in: Lancet. 2002;16;359:630.
12. Rasmussen KL, Laugesen CS, Ringholm L, et al. Progression of diabetic retinopathy during pregnancy in women with type 2 diabetes. Diabetologia 2010;53:1076-83.
13. Cundy T, Slee F, Gamble G, et al. Hypertensive disorders in women with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, Diabet Med 2002;19:482-9.
14. Rahman W, Rahman FZ, Yassin S, et al. Progression of retinopathy during pregnancy in type 1 diabetes. Clin Exp Ophthalmol 2007;35:231-6.
15. Jensen DM, Damm P, Ovesen P, et al. Microalbuminuria, preeclampsia, and preterm delivery in pregnancy women with type 1 diabetes: results from a nationwide Danish study. Diabetes Care 2010;33:90-4.
16. Alsuwaida A, Mousa D, Al-Harbi A, et al. Impact of early chronic kidney disease on maternal and fetal outcomes of pregnancy. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med 2011;24:1432-6.
17. Koetje PM, Spaan JJ, Kooman JP, et al. Pregnancy reduces the accuracy of the estimated glomerular filtration rate based on Cockcroft-Gault and MDRD formulas. Reprod Sci 2011;18:456-62.
18. Biesenbach G, Grafinger P, Stoger H, et al. How pregnancy influences renal function in nephropathic type 1 diabetic women depends on their preconceptional creatinine clearance. J Nephrol 1999;12:41-6.
19. Gordon M, Landon MB, Samuels P, et al. Perinatal outcome and long-term follow-up associated with modern management of diabetic nephropathy. Obstet Gynecol 1996;87:401-9.
20. Cooper WO, Hernandez-Diaz S, Arbogast PG, et al. Major congenital malformations after first-trimester exposure to ACE inhibitors. N Engl J Med 2006;354: 2443-51.
21. Li DK, Yang C, Andrade S, et al. Maternal exposure to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in the first trimester and risk of malformations in offspring: a retrospective cohort study. BMJ 2011;343: d5931.
22. Walfisch A, Al-Maawali A, Moretti ME, et al. Teratogenicity of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or receptor blockers. J Obstet Gynaecol 2011;31:465-72.
23. Bullo M, Tschumi S, Bucher B, et al. Pregnancy outcome following exposure to angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin recep- tor antagonists: a systematic review. Hypertension 2012;60:444-50.
24. Bagg W, Henley PG, Macpherson P, et al. Pregnancy in women with diabetes and ischemic heart