09 혈당 조절 모니터링 123

patients? The Fremantle Diabetes Study. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1764-70.
33. Davis WA, Bruce DG, Davis TM. Does self-monitoring of blood glucose improve outcome in type 2 diabetes? The Fremantle Diabetes Study. Diabetologia 2007;50:510-5.
34. Farmer A,Wade A, Goyder E, et al. Impact of self monitoring of blood glucose in the management of patients with non-insulin treated diabetes: open parallel group randomised trial. BMJ 2007;335:132.
35. Allemann S, Hourtiet C, Diem P, Stettler C. Self-monitoring of blood glucose in non-insulin treated patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Curr Med Res Opin 2009;25:2903-14.
36. Jansen JP. Self-monitoring of glucose in type 2 diabetes mellitus: a Bayesian meta-analysis of direct and indirect comparisons. Curr Med Res Opin 2006;22:671-81.
37. McGeoch G, Derry S, Moore RA. Self-monitoring of blood glucose in type-2 diabetes: what is the evidence? Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2007;23:423-40.
38. Poolsup N, Suksomboon N, Rattanasookchit S. Meta-analysis of the benefits of self-monitoring of blood glucose on glycemic control in type 2 diabetes patients: an update. Diab Technol Ther 2009;11:775-84.
39. St John A, Davis WA, Price CP, Davis TME. The value of self-monitoring of blood glucose: a review of recent evidence. J Diabetes Complications 2010;24:129-41.
40. Towfigh A, Romanova M, Weinreb JE, et al. Self-monitoring of blood glucose levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus not taking insulin: a meta-analysis. Am J Manag Care 2008;14:468-75.
41. Canadian Optimal Medication Prescribing and Utilization Service. Systematic review of use of blood glucose test strips for the management of diabetes mellitus. 2009. Available at http://www.cadth.ca/media/pdf/BGTS_SR_Report_of_Clinical_Outcomes.pdf. Accessed April 25, 2012.
42. Skeie S, Kristensen GBB, Carlsen S, Sandberg S. Self-monitoring of blood glucose in type 1 diabetes patients with insufficient metabolic control: focused self-monitoring of blood glucose intervention can lower glycated hemoglobin A1C. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2009;3:83-8.
43. Malanda UL, Welschen LMC, Riphagen II, et al. Self-monitoring of blood glucose in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who are not using insulin. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2012;1:CD005060.
44. Franciosi M, Lucisano G, Pellegrini F. ROSES: role of self-monitoring of blood glucose and Intensive education in patients with type 2 diabetes not receiving insulin. A pilot randomized clinical trial. Diabet Med 2011;28:789-96.
45. Duran A, Martin P, Runkle I, et al. Benefits of self-monitoring blood glucose in the management of new-onset Type 2 diabetes mellitus: the St Carlos Study, a prospective randomized clinic-based interventional study with parallel groups. J Diabetes 2010;2:203-11.
46. UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Group. Intensive blood-glucose control with sulphonylureas or insulin compared with conventional treatment and risk of complications in patients with type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 33). Lancet 1998; 352:837-53.
47. Sacks DB, Bruns DE, Goldstein DE, et al. Guidelines and recommendations for laboratory analysis in the diagnosis and management of diabetes mellitus. Clin Chem 2002;48:436-72.
48. Norris SL, Engelgau MM, Narayan KM. Effectiveness of self-management training in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials. Diabetes Care 2001;24:561-87.
49. Bergenstal R, Pearson J, Cembrowski GS, et al. Identifying variables associated with inaccurate self-monitoring of blood glucose: proposed guidelines to improve accuracy. Diabetes Educ 2000;26:981-9.
50. Jungheim K, Koschinsky T. Glucose monitoring at the arm: risky delays of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia detection. Diabetes Care 2002;25:956-60.
51. Ellison JM, Stegmann JM, Colner SL, et al. Rapid changes in postprandial blood glucose produce concentration differences at finger, forearm, and thigh sampling sites. Diabetes Care 2002;25:961-4.
52. Bina DM, Anderson RL, Johnson ML, et al. Clinical impact of prandial state, exercise, and site preparation on the equivalence of alternative-site blood glucose testing. Diabetes Care 2003;26:981-5.
53. Jungheim K, Koschinsky T. Glucose monitoring at the thenar: evaluation of upper dermal blood glucose kinetics during rapid systemic blood glucose changes. Horm Metab Res 2002;34:325-9.
54. Guerci B, Benichou M, Floriot M, et al. Accuracy of an electrochemical sensor for measuring capillary
<PAGE>123