<PAGE>289
27 당뇨병에서 만성 신질환

73. Igarashi M, Hirata A, Kadomoto Y, et al. Dual blockade of angiotensin II with enalapril and losartan reduces proteinuria in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes. Endocr J 2006;53:493-501.
74. Jacobsen P, Parving HH. Beneficial impact on cardiovascular risk factors by dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system in diabetic nephropathy. Kidney Int 2004;66:S108-10.
75. Burgess E, Muirhead N, Rene de Cotret P, et al. Supramaximal dose of candesartan in proteinuric renal disease. J Am Soc Nephrol 2009;20:893-900.
76. Epstein M, Williams GH, Weinberger M, et al. Selective aldosterone blockade with eplerenone reduces albuminuria in patients with type 2 diabetes. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2006;1:940-51.
77. Parving HH, Persson F, Lewis JB, et al. Aliskiren combined with losartan in type 2 diabetes and nephropathy. N Engl J Med 2008;358:2433-46.
78. Mann JF, Schmieder RE, McQueen M, et al. Renal outcomes with telmisartan, ramipril, or both, in people at high vascular risk (the ONTARGET study): a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, controlled trial. Lancet 2008;372:547-53.
79. Bakris GL, Weir MR. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-associated elevations in serum creatinine: is this a cause for concern? Arch Intern Med 2000;160:685-93.
80. Reams GP, Bauer JH, Gaddy P. Use of the converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril in renovascular hypertension. Effect on blood pressure, renal function, and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Hypertension 1986;8:290-7.
81. Franklin SS, Smith RD. Comparison of effects of enalapril plus hydrochlorothiazide versus standard triple therapy on renal function in renovascular hypertension. Am J Med 1985;79:14-23.
82. Miyamori I, Yasuhara S, Takeda Y, et al. Effects of converting enzyme inhibition on split renal function in renovascular hypertension. Hypertension 1986;8:415-21.
83. Palmer BF. Managing hyperkalemia caused by inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. N Engl J Med 2004;351:585-92.
84. Cooper WO, Hernandez-Diaz S, Arbogast PG, et al. Major congenital malformations after first-trimester exposure to ACE inhibitors. N Engl J Med 2006;354: 2443-51.
85. Levin A, Mendelssohn D. Care and referral of adult patients with reduced kidney function: position paper from the Canadian Society of Nephrology. 2006.