KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

## 참고 문헌

1.  Braga M, Casanova A, Teoh H, et al. Treatment gaps in the management of cardiovascular risk factors in patients with type 2 diabetes in Canada. Can J Cardiol 2010;26:297-302.
2.  Borgermans L, Goderis G, Van Den Broeke C, et al. Interdisciplinary Diabetes Care teams operating on the interface between primary and specialty care are associated with improved outcomes of care: findings from the Leuven Diabetes Project. BMC Health Serv Res 2009;9:179.
3.  Coleman K, Austin B, Brach C, Wagner EH. Evidence on the chronic care model in the new millennium. Health Affairs 2009;28:75-85.
4.  Renders CM, Valk GD, Griffin S, et al. Interventions to improve the management of diabetes mellitus in primary care, outpatient, and community settings. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2001;1:CD001481.
5.  Barr VJ, Robinson S, Marin-Link B, Underhill L, et al. The expanded chronic care model: an integration of concepts and strategies from population health promotion and the chronic care model. Hosp Q 2003;7:73-80.
6.  Improving Chronic Illness Care. Available at: http://www.improvingchroniccare.org/index.php?p=ACIC_Survey&s=35. Accessed February 24, 2013.
7.  Health Canada Council. Progress Report 2011: Health care renewal in Canada. May 2011. Available at: http://www.healthcouncilcanada.ca/tree/2.45-2011Progress_ENG.pdf. Accessed February 24, 2013.
8.  Gabbay RA, Bailit MH, Mauger DT, et al. Multipayer patient-centered medical home implementation guided by the chronic care model. Jt Comm J Qual Patient Saf 2011;37:265-73.
9.  Fleming B, Silver A, Ocepek-Welikson K, et al. The relationship between organizational systems and clinical quality in diabetes care. Am J Manag Care 2004;10:934-44.
10. Parchman ML, Zeber JE, Romero RR, et al. Risk of coronary artery disease in type 2 diabetes and the delivery of care consistent with the chronic care model in primary care settings: a STARnet study. Med Care 2007;45:1129-34.
11. Chin MH, Drum ML, Guillen M, et al. Improving and sustaining diabetes care in community health centers with the health disparities collaboratives. Med Care 2007;45:1135-43.
12. Pimougouet C, Le GM, Thiebaut R, et al. Effectiveness of disease-management programs for improving diabetes care: a meta-analysis. CMAJ 2011;183:e115-27.
13. Vargas RB, Mangione CM, Asch S, et al. Can a chronic care model collaborative reduce heart disease risk in patients with diabetes. J Gen Intern Med 2007;22:215-22.
14. Stock S, Drabik A, Buscher G, et al. German diabetes management programs improve quality of care and curb costs. Health Affairs 2010;29:2197-205.
15. Willens D, Cripps R, Wilson A, et al. Interdisciplinary team care for diabetic patients by primary care physicians, advanced practice nurses and clinical Pharmacists. Clin Diabetes 2011;29:60-8.
16. Davidson MB, Blanco-Castellanos M, Duran P. Integrating nurse-directed diabetes management into a primary care setting. Am J Manag Care 2010;16:652-6.
17. Manns BJ, Tonelli M, Zhang J, et al. Enrolment in primary care networks: impact on outcomes and processes of care for patients with diabetes. CMAJ 2012;184:e144-52.
18. Saxena S, Misra T, Car J, et al. Systematic review of primary healthcare interventions to improve diabetes outcomes in minority ethnic groups. J Ambul Care Manage 2007;30:218-30.
19. Welch G, Garb J, Zagarins S, et al. Nurse diabetes case management interventions and blood glucose control: results of a meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2010;88:1-6.
20. Clark CE, Smith LFP, Taylor RS, et al. Nurse-led interventions used to improve control of high blood pressure in people with diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabet Med 2011;28:250-61.
21. Katon WJ. Collaborative care for patients with depression and chronic disease. N Engl J Med 2010;363:2611-20.
22. Ismail K, Winkley K, Rabe-Hesketh S. Systemic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trial of psychological interventions to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. Lancet 2004;363:1589-97.
23. Collins C, Limone BL, Scholle JM, et al. Effect of pharmacist interventions on glycemic control in diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2011;92:145-52.
<PAGE>98