22 이상지질혈증
68. Robins SJ, Rubins HB, Faas FH, et al. Veterans Affairs HDL Intervention Trial (VA-HIT). Insulin resistance and cardiovascular events with low HDL cholesterol: the Veterans Affairs HDL Intervention Trial (VA-HIT). Diabetes Care 2003;26: 1513-7.
69. Keech A, Simes RJ, Barter P, et al, FIELD Study Investigators. Effects of long-term fenofibrate therapy on cardiovascular events in 9795 people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (the FIELD study): randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2005;366:1849-61.
70. Secondary prevention by raising HDL cholesterol and reducing triglycerides in patients with coronary artery disease: the Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention (BIP) Study. Circulation 2000; 102:21-7.
71. Durrington PN, Tuomilehto J, Hamann A, et al. Rosuvastatin and fenofibrate alone and in combination in type 2 diabetes patients with combined hyperlipidaemia. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2004;64:137-51.
72. Athyros VG, Papageorgiou AA, Athyrou VV, et al. Atorvastatin and micronized fenofibrate alone and in combination in type 2 diabetes with combined hyperlipidemia. Diabetes Care 2002;25:1198-202.
73. Pasternak RC, Smith Jr SC, Bairey-Merz C, et al. American Heart Association; National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute ACC/AHA/NHLBI clinical advisory on the use and safety of statins. J Am Coll Cardiol 2002;40:567-72.
74. Barter PJ, Ballantyne CM, Carmena R, et al. Apo B versus cholesterol in estimating cardiovascular risk and in guiding therapy: report of the thirty-person ten-country panel. J Intern Med 2006;259:247-58.
75. Walldius G, Jungner I, Holme I, et al. High apolipoprotein B, low apolipoprotein A-I, and improvement in the prediction of fatal myocardial infarction (AMORIS study): a prospective study. Lancet 2001;358:2026-33.
76. Hermans MP, Sacks FM, Ahn SA, et al. Non-HDL as a valid surrogate for apo B100 measurements in diabetes: discriminant ratio and unbiased equivalence. Cardiovasc Diabetol 2011;10:20.
77. Robinson JG, Wang S, Smith BJ, Jacobson TA. Meta-analysis of the relationship between non-HDL-C reduction and coronary heart disease risk. J Am Coll Cardiol 2009;53:316-22.
78. Ramjee V, Sperling LS, Jacobson TA. Non-HDL-C versus apo B in cardiovascular risk stratification. J Am Coll Cardiol 2011;58:457-63.
79. Mora S, Glynn RJ, Boekholdt SM, et al. On-treatment non-HDL-C, apo B, triglycerides, and lipid ratios in relation to residual vascular risk after treatment with potent statin therapy. J Am Coll Cardiol 2012;59:1521-8.
<PAGE>253