318 KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

25. Min JK, Williams KA, Okwuosa TM, et al. Predic- tion of coronary heart disease by erectile dysfunc- tion in men referred for nuclear stress testing. Arch Intern Med 2006;166:201-6.
26. Chiurlia E, D’Amico R, Ratti C, et al. Subclinical cor- onary artery atherosclerosis in patients with erectile dysfunction. J Am Coll Cardiol 2005;46:1503-6.
27. Araujo AB, Travison TG, Ganz P, et al. Erectile dys- function and mortality. J Sex Med 2009;6:2445-54.
28. Giugliano F, Maiorino MI, Bellastella G, et al. Adherence to Mediterranean diet and erectile dys- function in men with type 2 diabetes. J Sex Med 2010;7:1911-7.
29. Klein R, Klein BEK, Lee KE, et al, Prevalence of self-reported erectile dysfunction in people with long-term IDDM. Diabetes Care 1996;19:135-41.
30. Grant PS, Lipscomb D. How often do we ask about erectile dysfunction in the diabetes review clinic? Development of a neuropathy screening tool. Acta Diabetol 2009;46:285-90.
31. Dhindsa S, Prabhakar S, Sethi M, et al. Frequent occurrence of hypogonado-tropichypogonadism in type 2 diabetes. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2004;89:5462-8.
32. Boyanov MA, Boneva Z, Christov VG. Testoster- one supplementation in men with type 2 diabetes, visceral obesity and partial androgen deficiency. Aging Male 2003;6:1-7.
33. Shabsign R, Raifer J, Aversa A, et al. The evolving role of testosterone in the treatment of erectile dys- function. Int J Clin Pract 2006;60:1087-92.
34. Shabsign R, Kaufman JM, Steidle C, et al. Random- ized study of testosterone gel as adjunctive therapy to sildenafil in hypogonadal men with erectile dys- function who do not respond to sildenafil alone. J Urol 2004;172:658-63.
35. El-Saklka AI, Sayed HM, Tayeb KA. Androgen pattern in patients with type 2diabetes-associated erectile dysfunction: impact of metabolic control. Urology 2009;74:552-9.
36. Kalinchenko SY, Kozlov GI, Gontcharov NP, et al. Oral testosterone undecanoate reverses erectile dysfunction associated with diabetes mellitus in patients failing on sildenafil citrate therapy alone. Aging Male 2003;6:94-9.
37. Rosen RC, Riley A, Wagner G, et al. The Interna- tional Index of Erectile Function(IIEF): a multidi- mensional scale for assessment of erectile dysfunc- tion. Urology1997;49:822-30.
38. Cappelleri JC, Rosen RC, Smith MD, et al. Diagnos- tic evaluation of the erectile function domain of the International Index of Erectile Function. Urology 1999;54:346-51.
39. Ramanathan R, Mulhall J, Rao S, et al. Prospective correlation between the International Index of Erec- tile Function(IIEF) and Sexual Health Inventory for Men(SHIM): implications for calculating a derived SHIM for clinical use. J Sex Med 2007;4:1334-44.
40. Morales A, Bella A, Chun S, et al. A practical guide to diagnosis, managementand treatment of testos- terone deficiency for Canadian physicians. Can Urol Assoc J 2010;4:269-75.
41. Valiquette L, Montorsi F, Auerbach S. Vardenafil Study Group. First-dose success with vardenafil in men with erectile dysfunction and associated comor- bidities: RELY-I. Int J Clin Pract 2006;60:1378-85.
42. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Research Group. The effect of intensive diabetes therapy on the development and progression of neuropathy. Ann Intern Med 1995;122:561-8.
43. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Re- search Group. The effect of intensive treatment of diabetes on the development and progression of long-term complications in insulin-dependent dia- betes mellitus. N Engl J Med1993;329:977-86.
44. UK Prospective Diabetes Study(UKPDS) Group. In- tensive blood-glucose control with sulphonylureas or insulin compared with conventional treatment and risk of complications in patients with type 2 diabetes(UKPDS 33). Lancet 1998;352:837-53.
45. Azad N, Emanuele NV, Abraira C, et al. The ef- fects of intensive glycemic controlon neuropathy in the VA Cooperative Study on Type II Diabetes Mellitus(VACSDM). J Diabetes Complications 1990; 13:307-13.
46. El-Saklka AI, Hassoba HM, Sayed HM, et al. Pattern of endocrinal changes in patients with sexual dys- function. J Sex Med 2005;2:551-8.
47. Fonseca V, Seftel A, Denney J, et al. Impact of dia- betes mellitus on the severity of erectile dysfunction and response to treatment: analysis of data from tadalafil clinical trials. Diabetologia 2004;47:1914-23.
48. Rendell MS, Raifer J, Wicker PA, et al. Sildenafil for treatment of erectile dysfunction in men with dia- betes: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA 1999; 281:421-6.
49. Boulton AJM, Selam J-L, Sweeney M, et al. Silde- nafil citrate for the treatment of erectile dysfunction