KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

23. Dattilo AM, Kris-Etherton PM. Effects of weight reduction on blood lipids and lipoproteins: a meta- analysis. Am J Clin Nutr 1992;56:320-8.
24. Goldstein DJ. Beneficial health effects of modest weight loss. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord 1992;16:397-415.
25. Elmer PJ, Grimm Jr R, Laing B, et al. Lifestyle intervention: results of the Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study (TOMHS). Prev Med 1995;24:378-88.
26. Tuomilehto J, Lindstrom J, Eriksson JG, et al. Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study Group. Prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus by changes in lifestyle among subjects with impaired glucose tolerance. N Engl J Med 2001;344:1343-50.
27. Knowler WC, Barrett-Connor E, Fowler SE, et al, Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. Reduction in the incidence of type 2 diabetes with lifestyle intervention or metformin. N Engl J Med 2002;346:393-403.
28. Sumithran P, Prendergast LA, Delbridge E, et al. Long-term persistence of hormonal adaptations to weight loss. N Engl J Med 2011;365:1597-604.
29. National Institutes of Health. Clinical guidelines on the identification, evaluation, and treatment of overweight and obesity in adults: the evidence report. Obes Res 1998;6(suppl 2):S1Se-209S.
30. Look AHEAD Research GroupWing RR. Long-term effects of a lifestyle intervention on weight and cardiovascular risk factors in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus: four-year results of the Look AHEAD trial. Arch Intern Med 2010;170:1566-75.
31. Wadden TA, West DS, Neiberg RH, et al. One-year weight losses in the Look AHEAD study: factors associated with success. Obesity 2009;17:713-22.
32. The American Diabetes Association’s (ADA) evidence-based practice guidelines, standards, and related recommendations and documents for diabetes care. Diabetes Care January 2012 vol. 35 no. Supplement 1.
33. Willett WC, Dietz WH, Colditz GA. Guidelines for healthy weight. N Engl J Med 1999;341:427-34.
34. Williamson DF, Thompson TJ, Thun M, et al. Intentional weight loss and mortality among overweight individuals with diabetes. Diabetes Care 2000;23:1499-504.
35. Pavlou KN, Krey S, Steffee WP. Exercise as an adjunct to weight loss and maintenance in moderately obese subjects. Am J Clin Nutr 1989;49(5 suppl):1115-23.
36. Wing RR, Hill JO. Successful weight loss maintenance. Annu Rev Nutr 2001;21:323-41.
37. Wing RB, Goldstein MG, Acton KJ, et al. Behavioral science research in diabetes: lifestyle changes related to obesity, eating behavior, and physical activity. Diabetes Care 2001;24:117-23.
38. Rolls BJ, Morris EL, Roe LS. Portion size of food affects energy intake in normal-weight and overweight men and women. Am J Clin Nutr 2002;76:1207-13.
39. Rolls BJ, Roe LS, Meengs JS. Salad and satiety: energy density and portion size of a first-course salad affect energy intake at lunch. J Am Diet Assoc 2004;104:1570-6.
40. Wing RR, Jeffery RW. Outpatient treatments of obesity: a comparison of methodology and clinical results. Int J Obes 1979;3:261-79.
41. Bennett GA. Behaviour therapy for obesity: a quantitative review of the effects of selected treatment characteristics on outcome. Behav Ther 1986;17:554-62.
42. Swinburn BA, Walter LG, Arroll B, et al. The green prescription study: a randomized controlled trial of written exercise advice provided by general practitioners. Am J Public Health 1998;88:288-91.
43. Logsdon DN, Lazaro CM, Meier RV. The feasibility of behavioral risk reduction in primary medical care. Am J Prev Med 1989;5:249-56.
44. Campbell MK, DeVellis BM, Strecher VJ, et al. Improving dietary behavior: the effectiveness of tailored messages in primary care settings. Am J Public Health 1994;84:783-7.
45. Lewis BS, Lynch WD. The effect of physician advice on exercise behavior. Prev Med 1993;22:110-21.
46. Freedhoff Y, Sharma AM. Best Weight: A Practical Guide to Office-Based Obesity Management. Canadian Obesity Network, Canada;2010.
47. Hollander PA, Elbein SC, Hirsch IB, et al. Role of orlistat in the treatment of obese patients with type 2 diabetes. A 1-year randomized double-blind study. Diabetes Care 1998;21:1288-94.
48. National Task Force on the Prevention and Treatment of Obesity. Longterm pharmacotherapy in the management of obesity. JAMA 1996;276:1907-15.
49. Scheen AJ, Lefobvre PJ. Antiobesity pharmacotherapy in the management of type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2000;16:114-24.

<PAGE>202