### 13 저혈당

<PAGE>171

## 참고 문헌

1.  Alvarez-Guisasola F, Yin DD, Nocea G, et al. Association of hypoglycemic symptoms with patients’ rating of their health-related quality of life state: Across sectional study. Health Qual Life Outcomes 2010;8:86.
2.  Anderbro T, Amsberg S, Adamson U, et al. Fear of hypoglycaemia in adults with Type 1 diabetes. Diabet Med 2010;27:1151-8.
3.  Belendez M, Hernandez-Mijares A. Beliefs about insulin as a predictor of fear ofhypoglycaemia. Chronic Illn 2009;5:250-6.
4.  Barnard K, Thomas S, Royle P, et al. Fear of hypo-glycaemia in parents of young children with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. BMC Pediatr 2010; 10:50.
5.  Di Battista AM, Hart TA, Greco L, Gloizer J. Type 1 diabetes among adolescents: reduced diabetes self-care caused by social fear and fear of hypoglyce-mia. Diabetes Educ 2009;35:465-75.
6.  Haugstvedt A, Wentzel-Larsen T, Graue M, et al. Fear of hypoglycaemia in mothers and fathers of children with Type 1 diabetes is associated with poor glycaemic control and parental emotional dis-tress: a population-based study. Diabet Med 2010; 27:72-8.
7.  Hepburn DA. Symptoms of hypoglycaemia. In: Frier BM, Fisher BM, editors. Hypoglycaemia and Diabetes: Clinical and Physiological Aspects. Lon-don, UK: Edward Arnold; 1993. p. 93-103.
8.  Davis SN, Mann S, Briscoe VJ, et al. Effects of in-tensive therapy and antecedent hypoglycemia on counterregulatory responses to hypoglycemia in type 2 diabetes. Diabetes 2009;58:701-9.
9.  Diabetes Research in Children Network (DirecNet) Study Group Tsalikian E, Tamborlane W, Xing D, et al. Blunted counter regulatory hormone re-sponses to hypoglycemia in young children and adolescents with well-controlled type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2009;32:1954-9.
10. Brands AM, Biessels GJ, de Haan EH, et al. The ef-fects of type 1 diabetes on cognitive performance: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Care 2005;28:726-35.
11. Whitmer RA, Karter AJ, Yaffe K, et al. Hypoglyce-mic episodes and risk of dementia in older patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. JAMA 2009;301(15): 1565-72.
12. Bonds DE, Miller ME, Bergenstal RM, et al. The association between symptomatic, severe hypo-glycaemia and mortality in type 2 diabetes: retro-spective epidemiological analysis of the ACCORD study. BMJ 2010;340:b4909.
13. Wright RJ, Newby DE, Stirling D, et al. Effects of acute insulin-induced hypoglycemia on indices of inflammation: putative mechanism for aggravat-ing vascular disease in diabetes. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1591-7.
14. Koivikko ML, Karsikas M, Salmela PI, et al. Effects of controlled hypoglycaemia on cardiac repolarisa-tion in patients with type 1 diabetes. Diabetologia 2008;51:426-35.
15. Kubiak T, Wittig A, Koll C, et al. Continuous glu-cose monitoring reveals associations of glucose levels with QT interval length. Diabetes Technol Ther 2010;12:283-6.
16. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Re-search Group. Hypoglycemia in the Diabetes Con-trol and Complications Trial. Diabetes 1997;46:271-86.
17. Miller ME, Bonds DE, Gerstein HC, et al. The ef-fects of baseline characteristics, glycaemia treat-ment approach, and glycated haemoglobin con-centration on the risk of severe hypoglycaemia: post hoc epidemiological analysis of the ACCORD study. BMJ 2010;340:b5444.
18. de Galan BE, Zougas S, Chalmers J, et al. Cogni-tive function and risks of cardiovascular disease and hypoglycaemia in patients with type 2 diabe-tes: The Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Modified Release Con-trolled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial. Diabetologia 2009;52:2328-36.
19. Sarkar U, Karter AJ, Liu JY, et al. Hypoglycemia is more common among type 2 diabetes patients with limited health literacy: the Diabetes Study of Northern California (DISTANCE). J Gen Intern Med 2010;25:962-8. Published erratum appears in J Gen Intern Med 2010;25:1258.
20. Seligman HK, Davis TC, Schillinger D, Wolf MS. Food insecurity is associated with hypoglycemia and poor diabetes self-management in a low-income sample with diabetes. J Health Care Poor Underserved 2010;21:1227-33.