<PAGE>75

### 03 당뇨병과 대사 증후군의 진단

11. Engelgau MM, Thompson TJ, Herman WH, Boyle JP, Aubert RE, Kenny SJ, Badran A, Sous ES, Ali MA. Comparison of fasting and 2-hour glucose and HbA1c levels for diagnosing diabetes. Diagnostic criteria and performance revisited. Diabetes Care 1997;20:785-91.
12. McCance DR, Hanson RL, Charles MA, Jacobsson LT, Pettitt DJ, Bennett PH, Knowler WC. Comparison of tests for glycated haemoglobin and fasting and two hour plasma glucose concentrations as diagnostic methods for diabetes. BMJ 1994;308:1323-8.
13. Report of the Expert Committee on the Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes Mellitus. Diabetes Care 1997;20:1183-97.
14. Ito C, Maeda R, Ishida S, Harada H, Inoue N, Sasaki H. Importance of OGTT for diagnosing diabetes mellitus based on prevalence and incidence of retinopathy. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2000;49:181-6.
15. Miyazaki M, Kubo M, Kiyohara Y, Okubo K, Nakamura H, Fujisawa K, Hata Y, Tokunaga S, Iida M, Nose Y, Ishibashi T, Hisayama S. Comparison of diagnostic methods for diabetes mellitus based on prevalence of retinopathy in a Japanese population: the Hisayama Study. Diabetologia 2004;47:1411-5.
16. Tapp RJ, Zimmet PZ, Harper CA, de Courten MP, McCarty DJ, Balkau B, Taylor HR, Welborn TA, Shaw JE, AusDiab Study G. Diagnostic thresholds for diabetes: the association of retinopathy and albuminuria with glycaemia. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2006;73:315-21.
17. International Expert C. International Expert Committee report on the role of the A1C assay in the diagnosis of diabetes. Diabetes Care 2009;32:1327-34.
18. Sarwar N, Aspelund T, Eiriksdottir G, Gobin R, Seshasai SR, Forouhi NG, Sigurdsson G, Danesh J, Gudnason V. Markers of dysglycaemia and risk of coronary heart disease in people without diabetes: Reykjavik prospective study and systematic review. PLoS Med 2010;7:e1000278.
19. Selvin E, Steffes MW, Zhu H, Matsushita K, Wagenknecht L, Pankow J, Coresh J, Brancati FL. Glycated hemoglobin, diabetes, and cardiovascular risk in nondiabetic adults. N Engl J Med 2010;362:800-11.
20. Weykamp C. HbA1c: A Review of Analytical and Clinical Aspects. Ann Lab Med 2013;33:393-400.
21. Braga F, Panteghini M. Standardization and analytical goals for glycated hemoglobin measurement. Clin Chem Lab Med 2013;51:1719-26.
22. Son JI, Rhee SY, Woo JT, Hwang JK, Chin SO, Chon S, Oh S, Kim SW, Kim YS. Hemoglobin a1c may be an inadequate diagnostic tool for diabetes mellitus in anemic subjects. Diabetes Metab J 2013; 37:343-8.
23. Gallagher EJ, Le Roith D, Bloomgarden Z. Review of hemoglobin A(1c) in the management of diabetes. J Diabetes 2009;1:9-17.
24. Davidson MB, Schriger DL. Effect of age and race/ethnicity on HbA1c levels in people without known diabetes mellitus: implications for the diagnosis of diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2010;87:415-21.
25. Herman WH, Ma Y, Uwaifo G, Haffner S, Kahn SE, Horton ES, Lachin JM, Montez MG, Brenneman T, Barrett-Connor E, Diabetes Prevention Program Research G. Differences in A1C by race and ethnicity among patients with impaired glucose tolerance in the Diabetes Prevention Program. Diabetes Care 2007;30:2453-7.
26. Pani LN, Korenda L, Meigs JB, Driver C, Chamany S, Fox CS, Sullivan L, D’Agostino RB, Nathan DM. Effect of aging on A1C levels in individuals without diabetes: evidence from the Framingham Offspring Study and the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2001-2004. Diabetes Care 2008;31:1991-6.
27. Tsugawa Y, Mukamal KJ, Davis RB, Taylor WC, Wee CC. Should the hemoglobin A(1c) diagnostic cutoff differ between blacks and whites?: a cross-sectional study. Ann Intern Med 2012;157:153-9.
28. Ziemer DC, Kolm P, Weintraub WS, Vaccarino V, Rhee MK, Twombly JG, Narayan KM, Koch DD, Phillips LS. Glucose-independent, black-white differences in hemoglobin A1c levels: a cross-sectional analysis of 2 studies. Ann Intern Med 2010;152: 770-7.
29. Rhee SY, Woo JT. The prediabetic period: review of clinical aspects. Diabetes Metab J 2011;35:107-16.
30. Forouhi NG, Balkau B, Borch-Johnsen K, Dekker J, Glumer C, Qiao Q, Spijkerman J, Stolk R, Tabac A, Wareham NJ, Edeg. The threshold for diagnosing impaired fasting glucose: a position statement by the European Diabetes Epidemiology Group. Diabetologia 2006;49:822-7.
31. Levitan EB, Song Y, Ford ES, Liu S. Is nondiabetic hyperglycemia a risk factor for cardiovascular disease? A meta-analysis of prospective studies. Arch Intern Med 2004;164:2147-55.