## 17 당뇨병과 정신 건강

91. Keogh KM, Smith SM, White P, et al. Psychological family intervention for poorly controlled type 2 diabetes. Am J Manag Care 2011;17:105-13.
92. Wysocki T, Harris MA, Buckloh LM, et al. Randomized trial of behavioral family systems therapy for diabetes: maintenance of effects on diabetes outcomes in adolescents. Diabetes Care 2007;30:555-60.
93. Wysocki T, Harris MA, Buckloh LM, et al. Randomized, controlled trial of behavioral family systems therapy for diabetes: maintenance and generalization of effects on parent-adolescent communication. Behav Ther 2008;39:33-46.
94. Katon WJ, Lin EHB, Von Korff M, et al. Collaborative care for patients with depression and chronic illnesses. N Engl J Med 2010;363:2611-20.
95. van der Feltz-Cornelis CM, Nuyen J, Stoop C, et al. Effect of interventions for major depressive disorder and significant depressive symptoms in patients with diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Gen Hosp Psychiatry 2010;32:380-95.
96. de Groot M, Doyle T, Kushnick M, et al. Can life-style interventions do more than reduce diabetes risk? Treating depression in adults with type 2 diabetes with exercise and cognitive behavioral therapy. Curr Diab Rep 2012;12:157-66.
97. Beck JS. Cognitive Behavior Therapy: Basics and Beyond. 2nd ed. New York: Guilford; 2011.
98. Wang MY, Tsai PS, Chou KR, Chen CM. A systematic review of the efficacy of non-pharmacological treatments for depression on glycaemic control in type 2 diabetics. J Clin Nurs 2008;17:2524-30.
99. Winkley K, Ismail K, Landau S, Eisler I. Psychological interventions to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 1 diabetes: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ 2006;333:65.
100. Xia Z, DePierre J, Nassberger L. Tricyclic antidepressants inhibit IL-6, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha release in human blood monocytes and IL-2 and interferongamma in T cells. Immunopharmacology 1996;34:27-37.
101. Maes M, Song C, Lin A, et al. Negative immunomodulatory effects of antide-pressants: inhibition of interferon-gamma and stimulation of interleukin-10 secretion. Neuropsychopharmacology 1999;20:370-9.
102. Kaufmann RP, Castracane VD, White DL. Impact of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram on insulin sensitivity, leptin and basal cortisol secretion in depressed and non-depressed euglycemic women of reproductive age. Gynecol Endocrinol 2005;21:129-37.
103. Weber-Hamann B, Giles M, Lederbogen F, et al, Improved insulin sensitivity in 80 nondiabetic patients with major depressive disorder after clinical remission in a double-blind, randomized trial of amitriptyline and paroxetine. J Clin Psychiatry 2006;67:1856-61.
104. Allison DB, Mentore JL, Heo M, et al, Antipsychotic-induced weight gain: a comprehensive research synthesis. Am J Psychiatry 1999;156:1686-96.
105. Woo V, Harris SB, Houlden RL. Canadian Diabetes Association Position Paper: Antipsychotic Medications and Associated Risks of Weight Gain and Diabetes. Can J Diabetes 2005;29:111-2.
106. Stroup TS, Lieberman JA, McEvoy JP, et al, Effectiveness of olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone, and ziprasidone in patients with schizophrenia following discontinuation of a previous atypical antipsychotic. Am J Psychiatry 2006;163:611-22.
107. Stroup TS, McEvoy JP, Ring KD. A randomized trial examining the effectiveness of switching from olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone to aripiprazole to reduce metabolic risk: comparison of antipsychotics for metabolic problems (CAMP). Am J Psychiatry 2011;168:947-56.
108. Stahl SM. The Prescriber's Guide. 4th ed. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press; 2011.
109. Virani AS, Bezchlibnyk-Butler KZ, Joel Jeffries JJ, et al. Clinical Handbook of Psychotropic Drugs. 19th ed. Toronto, Canada: Hogrefe Publishing; 2011.
<PAGE>215