16 당뇨병에서 체중 관리

## 참고 문헌

1.  Wing RR. Weight loss in the management of type 2 diabetes. In: Gerstein HC, Haynes B, editors. Evidence-Based Diabetes Care. Ontario, Canada: B,C. Decker, Inc; 2000. p. 252-76.
2.  Conway B, Miller RG, Costacou T, et al. Temporal patterns in overweight and obesity in type 1 diabetes. Diabet Med 2010;27:398-404.
3.  UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Group. Intensive blood-glucose control with sulphonylureas or insulin compared with conventional treatment and risk of complications in patients with type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 33). Lancet 1998;352:837-53.
4.  Ruderman N, Chisholm D, Pi-Sunyer X, et al. The metabolically obese, normal-weight individual revisited. Diabetes 1998;47:699-713.
5.  Markovic TP, Jenkins AB, Campbell LV, et al. The determinants of glycemic responses to diet restriction and weight loss in obesity and NIDDM. Diabetes Care 1998;21:687-94.
6.  Calle EE, Rodriguez C, Walker-Thurmond K, et al. Overweight, obesity, and mortality from cancer in a prospectively studied cohort of U.S. adults. N Engl J Med 2003;348:1625-38.
7.  Stevens J, Cai J, Pamuk ER, et al. The effect of age on the association between body-mass index and mortality. N Engl J Med 1998;338:1-7.
8.  Prospective Studies Collaboration. Body-mass index and cause-specific mortality in 900 000 adults: collaborative analyses of 57 prospective studies. Lancet 2009;373:1083-96.
9.  Health Canada. Canadian Guidelines for Body Weight Classification in Adults, Publication H49-179/2003-. Ottawa, ON: Health Canada;2003.
10. Rabkin SW, Chen Y, Leiter L, et al. Risk factor correlates of body mass index, Canadian Heart Health Surveys Research Group. CMAJ 1997;157(suppl 1): S26-31.
11. World Health Organization. Obesity: preventing and managing the global epidemic. Report of a WHO consultation. World Health Organ Tech Rep Ser 2000;894:1-253. i-xii.
12. Reeder BA, Senthilselvan A, Despres JP, et al. The association of cardiovascular disease risk factors with abdominal obesity in Canada. Canadian Heart Health Surveys Research Group. CMAJ 1997;157 (suppl 1):S39-45.
13. Després JP, Lemieux I, Prud’homme D. Treatment of obesity: need to focus on high risk abdominally obese patients. BMJ 2001;322:716-20.
14. Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults. Executive Summary of the Third Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program(NCEP) Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Adult Treatment Panel III). JAMA 2001;285:2486-97.
15. Grundy SM, Cleeman JI, Daniels SR, et al, American Heart Association, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Diagnosis and management of the metabolic syndrome: an American Heart Association/National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Scientific Statement. Circulation 2005;112:2735-52.
16. International Diabetes Federation. The IDF Consensus Worldwide Definition of the Metabolic Syndrome. Brussels, Belgium: IDF Communications; 2006. Available at: http://www.idf.org/webdata/docs/IDF_Meta_def_final.pdf. Accessed September 1, 2008.
17. Sharma AM, Padwal R. Obesity is a sign-overeating is a symptom: an a etiological framework for the assessment and management of obesity. Obes Rev 2010;11:362-70.
18. Hollander P. Anti-diabetes and anti-obesity medications: effects on weight in people with diabetes. Diabetes Spectrum 2007;20:159-65.
19. Gorin AA, Niemeier HM, Hogan P, et al. Binge eating and weight loss outcomes in overweight and obese individuals with type 2 diabetes: results from the Look AHEAD trial. Arch Gen Psychiatry 2008; 65:1447-55.
20. Ribisl PM, Lang W, Jaramillo SA, et al. Exercise capacity and cardiovascular/metabolic characteristics of overweight and obese individuals with type 2 diabetes: the Look AHEAD clinical trial. Diabetes Care 2007;30:2679-84.
21. Grunstein RR, Stenlof K, Hedner JA, et al. Two year reduction in sleep apnea symptoms and associated diabetes incidence after weight loss in severe obesity. Sleep 2007;30:703-10.
22. Wing RR, Marcus MD, Epstein LH, et al. Type II diabetic subjects lose less weight than their overweight nondiabetic spouses. Diabetes Care 1987;10:563-6.
<PAGE>201