82
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

## 참고 문헌

1.  Gilmer TP, O’Connor PJ. The growing importance of diabetes screening. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1695-7.
2.  Cowie CC, Rust KF, Byrd-Holt DD, et al. Prevalence of diabetes and impaired fasting glucose in adults in the U.S. population: National Health And Nutrition Examination Survey 1999-2002. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1263-8
3.  Rolka DB, Narayan KM, Thompson TJ, et al. Performance of recommended screening tests for undiagnosed diabetes and dysglycemia. Diabetes Care 2001;24:1899-903.
4.  Rathmann W, Haastert B, Icks A, et al. High prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes mellitus in Southern Germany: target populations for efficient screening. The KORA survey 2000. Diabetologia 2003;46:182-9.
5.  Van den Donk M, Sandbaek A, Borch-Johnsen, et al. Screening for type 2 diabetes: lessons from the ADDITION-Europe study. Diabet Med 2011;28: 416-26.
6.  Griffin SJ, Borch-Johnsen K, Davies MJ, et al. Effect of early intensive multifactorial therapy on 5-year cardiovascular outcomes in individuals with type 2 diabetes detected by screening (ADDITION-Europe): a cluster-randomised trial. Lancet 2011;378: 156-67.
7.  Simmons RK, Echouffo-Tcheugui JB, Sharp SJ, et al. Screening for type 2 diabetes and population mortality over 10 years (ADDITION-Cambridge): a cluster-randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2012; 380:1741-8.
8.  Raikou M, McGuire A. The economics of screening and treatment in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Pharma- coeconomics 2003;21:543-64.
9.  The cost-effectiveness of screening for type 2 diabetes. CDC Diabetes Cost-Effectiveness Study Group, Centers for Disease Control and Preven- tion. JAMA 1998;280:1757-63.
10. Kahn R, Alperin P, Eddy D, et al. Age at initia- tion of screening to detect type 2 diabetes: a cost- effectiveness analysis. Lancet 2010;375:1365-74.
11. Simmons RK, Rahman M, Jakes RW, et al. Effect of population screening for type 2 diabetes on mortal- ity: long term follow-up of the Ely cohort. Diabeto- logia 2011;54:312-9.
12. Gilles CL, Lambert PC, Abrahms KR, et al. Different strategies for screening and prevention of type 2 diabetes in adults: cost-effectiveness analysis. BMJ 2008;336:1180-4.
13. Hoerger TJ, Hicks KA, Sorensen SW, et al. Cost- effectiveness of screening for prediabetes among overweight and obese U.S adults. Diabetes Care 2007;30:2874-9.
14. KnowlerWC. Screening for NIDDM. Opportunities for detection, treatment, and prevention. Diabetes Care 1994;17:445-50.
15. Simmons RK, Echouffo-Tcheugui JB, Griffin SJ. Screening for type 2 diabetes: an update of evi- dence. Diabetes Obes Metab 2010;12:838-44.
16. Leiter LA, Barr A, Belanger A, et al. Diabetes Screening in Canada (DIASCAN) Study. Diabetes Screening in Canada (DIASCAN) study: prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes and glucose intolerance in family physician offices. Diabetes Care 2001;24: 1038-43.
17. Hu G, Qiao Q, Tuomilehto J, et al. DECODE Study Group. Prevalence of the metabolic syndrome and its relation to all- cause and cardiovascular mortal- ity in nondiabetic European men and women. Arch Intern Med 2004;164:1066-76.
18. Glumer C, Vistisen D, Borch-Johnsen K, et al. De- tect 2 Collaboration. Risk scores for type 2 diabetes can be applied in some populations but not all. Diabetes Care 2006;29:410-4.
19. Schmid R, Vollenweider P, Waeber G, et al. Esti- mating the risk of developing type 2 diabetes: a comparison of several risk scores. The Cohorte Lausanneoise Study. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1863-8.