328 KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

# 참고 문헌

1.  Nadeau K, Dabelea D. Epidemiology of type 2 diabetes in children and adolescents. Endocr Res 2008;33:35-58.
2.  Amed S, Dean HJ, Panagiotopoulos C, et al. Type 2 diabetes, medication-induced diabetes, and mono-genic diabetes in Canadian children: a prospective national surveillance study. Diabetes Care 2010;33: 786-91.
3.  Writing Group for the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study Group, Dabelea D, Bell RA, D’Agostino Jr RB, et al. Incidence of diabetes in youth in the United States. JAMA 2007;297:2716-24.
4.  Taylor JS, Kacmar JE, Nothnagle M, Lawrence RA. A systematic review of the literature associating breastfeeding with type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes. J Am Coll Nutr 2005;24:320-6.
5.  Shields M. Measured Obesity: Overweight Cana-dian children and adolescents. Nutrition: Findings from the Canadian Community Health Survey. Ot-tawa, ON: Statistics Canada; 2005:1-34. Catalogue no. 82-620-MWE2005001.
6.  Oude Luttikhuis H, Baur L, Jansen H, et al. Inter-ventions for treating obesity in children. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2009;(1):CD001872.
7.  Rogovik AL, Chanoine JP, Goldman RD. Pharma-cotherapy and weight-loss supplements for treat-ment of paediatric obesity. Drugs 2010;70:335-46.
8.  Freemark M. Pharmacotherapy of childhood obe-sity: an evidence-based, conceptual approach. Diabetes Care 2007;30:395-402.
9.  McDuffie JR, Calis KA, Uwaifo GI, et al. Efficacy of orlistat as an adjunct to behavioral treatment in overweight African American and Caucasian ado-lescents with obesity-related co-morbid conditions. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab 2004;17:307-19.
10. Ozkan B, Bereket A, Turan S, Keskin S. Addition of orlistat to conventional treatment in adolescents with severe obesity. Eur J Pediatr 2004;163:738-41.
11. Chanoine JP, Hampl S, Jensen C, et al. Effect of orlistat on weight and body composition in obese adolescents: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA 2005;293:2873-83.
12. Sellers EA, Pharmacotherapy and bariatric surgery for the treatment of obesity in children and ado-lescents, 2006 Canadian clinical practice guidelines on the management and prevention of obesity in adults and children. CMAJ 2007;176:S89-91.
13. Pinhas-Hamiel O, Zeitler P. Acute and chronic complications of type 2 diabetes mellitus in chil-dren and adolescents. Lancet 2007;369:1823-31.
14. Pinhas-Hamiel O, Dolan LM, Daniels SR, et al. In-creased incidence of noninsulin-dependent diabe-tes mellitus among adolescents. J Pediatr 1996; 128 (5pt 1):608-15.
15. Weiss R, Taksali SE, Tamborlane WV, et al. Predic-tors of changes in glucose tolerance status in obese youth. Diabetes Care 2005;28:902-9.
16. Palmert MR, Gordon CM, Kartashov AI, et al. Screening for abnormal glucose tolerance in ado-lescents with polycystic ovary syndrome. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2002;87:1017-23.
17. Dabelea D, Hanson RL, Lindsay RS, et al. Intra-uterine exposure to diabetes conveys risks for type 2 diabetes and obesity: a study of discordant sib-ships. Diabetes 2000;49:2208-11.
18. Young TK, Martens PJ, Taback SP, et al. Type 2 diabetes mellitus in children: prenatal and early infancy risk factors among native Canadians. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2002;156:651-5.
19. Mendelson M, Cloutier J, Spence L, et al. Obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus in a birth cohort of first nation children born to mothers with pediatric-onset type 2 diabetes. Pediatr Diabetes 2011;12(3 pt 2):219-28.
20. Stoddart ML, Blevins KS, Lee ET, et al. Cherokee Diabetes Study. Association of acanthosis nigricans with hyperinsulinemia compared with other se-lected risk factors for type 2 diabetes in Cherokee Indians: the Cherokee Diabetes Study. Diabetes Care 2002;25:1009-14.
21. Weiss R, Dziura J, Burgert TS, et al. Obesity and the metabolic syndrome in children and adoles-cents. N Engl J Med 2004;350:2362-74.
22. Perseeghin G, Bonfanti R, Magni S, et al. Insulin resistance and whole body energy homeostasis in obese adolescents with fatty liver disease. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2006;291:E697-703.
23. Panagiotopoulos C, Ronsley R, Davidson J. In-creased prevalence of obesity and glucose intoler-ance in youth treated with second-generation an-tipsychotic medications. Can J Psychiatry 2009;54: 743-9.
24. Levitt Katz LE, Swami S, Abraham M, et al. Neu-ropsychiatric disorders at the presentation of type