<PAGE>234
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

## 참고 문헌

1.  Booth GL, Kapral MK, Fung K, Tu JV. Relation between age and cardiovascular disease in men and women with diabetes compared with non-diabetic people: a population-based retrospective cohort study. Lancet 2006;368:29-36.
2.  Manuel DG, Schultz SE. Health-related quality of life and health-adjusted life expectancy of people with diabetes in Ontario, Canada, 1996-1997. Diabetes Care 2004;27:407-14.
3.  Haffner SM, Lehto S, Rönnemaa T, et al. Mortality from coronary heart disease in subjects with type 2 diabetes and in nondiabetic subjects with and without prior myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med 1998; 339:229-34.
4.  Stevens RJ, Kothari V, Adler AI, et al. The UKPDS risk engine: a model for the risk of coronary heart disease in Type II diabetes (UKPDS 56). Clin Sci (Lond) 2001;101:671-9.
5.  The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study Research Group. Intensive diabetes treatment and cardiovascular disease in patients with Type 1 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2005;353:2643-53.
6.  Grover SA, Lowensteyn I, Esrey KL, et al. Do doctors accurately assess coronary risk in their patients? preliminary results of the coronary health assessment study. BMJ 1995;310:975-8.
7.  Ridker PM, Danielson E, Fonseca FA, et al. Rosuvastatin to prevent vascular events in men and women with elevated C-reactive protein. N Engl J Med 2008;359:2195-207.
8.  Gaede P, Vedel P, Larsen N, et al. Multifactorial intervention and CAD in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2003;348:383-93.
9.  Gaede P, Lund-Andersen H, Parving HH, Pedersen O. Effect of a multifactorial intervention on mortality in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;358:580-91.
10. Stock S, Drabik A, Büscher G, et al. German diabetes management programs improve quality of care and curb costs. Health Affairs 2010;29:2197-205.
11. Bergner DW, Goldberger JJ. Diabetes mellitus and sudden cardiac death: what are the data? Cardiol J 2010;17:117-29.
12. Guzder RN, Gatling W, Mullee MA, et al. Prognostic value of the Framingham cardiovascular risk equation and the UKPDS risk engine for coronary heart disease in newly diagnosed Type 2 diabetes: results from a United Kingdom study. Diabet Med 2005;22:554-62.
13. Lloyd Jones DM, Leip EP, Larson MG, et al. Prediction of lifetime risk for cardiovascular disease by risk factor burden at 50 years of age. Circulation 2006;113:791-8.
14. Stone JA. Framing CVD event risk prediction. Can J Cardiol 2011;27:171-3.
15. Fox CS, Pencina MJ, Wilson PW, et al. Lifetime risk of CAD among individuals with and without diabetes stratified by obesity status in the Framingham heart study. Diabetes Care 2008;31:1582-4.
16. Laing SP, Swerdlow AJ, Slater SD, et al. The British Diabetic Association Cohort Study, II: cause-specific mortality in patients with insulin-treated diabetes mellitus. Diabet Med 1999;16:466-71.
17. Nathan DM, Cleary PA, Backlund JY, et al, Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (DCCT/EDIC) Study Research Group. Intensive diabetes treatment and cardiovascular disease in patients with type 1 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2005;353:2643-53.
18. Schwab KO, Doerfer J, Hecker W, et al, DPV Initiative of the German Working Group for Pediatric Diabetology. Spectrum and prevalence of atherogenic risk factors in 27,358 children, adolescents, and young adults with type 1 diabetes. Cross-sectional data from the German diabetes documentation and quality management system (DPV). Diabetes Care 2006;29:218-25.
19. Solberg L, Desai JR, O’Connor PJ, et al. Diabetic patients who smoke: are they different? Diabetes Care 1999;22:1887-98.
20. Haire-Joshu D, Glasgow RE, Tibbs TL. American Diabetes Association. Smoking and diabetes. Diabetes Care 2004;27(suppl 1):S74-5.
21. Warburton DE, Nichol CW, Bredin SSD. Health benefits of physical activity: the evidence. CMAJ 2006;174:801-9.
22. Angiolillo DJ, Suryadevara S. Aspirin and clopidogrel: efficacy and resistance in diabetes mellitus. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab 2009; 23:375-88.