26 심부전 환자의 당뇨병 치료 273

## 참고 문헌

1.  Albertini J-P, Cohen R, Valensi P, et al. B-type natriuretic peptide, a marker of asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction in type 2 diabetic patients. Diabetes Metab 2008;34:355-62.
2.  O’Donoghue M, Kenney P, Oestreicher E, et al. Usefulness of aminoterminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide testing for the diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of dyspneic patients with diabetes mellitus seen in the emergency department (from the PRIDE Study). Am J Cardiol 2007;100:1336-40.
3.  Valle R, Bagolin E, Canali C, et al. The BNP assay does not identify mild left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in asymptomatic diabetic patients. Eur J Echocardiogr 2006;7:40-4.
4.  Shimabukuro M, Higa N, Oshiro Y, et al. Diagnostic utility of brain-natriuretic peptide for left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in asymptomatic type 2 diabetic patients. Diabetes Obes Metab 2007;9:323-9.
5.  Galderisi M. Diastolic dysfunction and diabetic cardiomyopathy: evaluation by Doppler echocardiography. J Am Coll Cardiol 2006;48:1548-51.
6.  Karavanaki K, Kazianis G, Konstantopoulos I, et al. Early signs of left ventricular dysfunction in adolescents with Type 1 diabetes mellitus: the importance of impaired circadian modulation of blood pressure and heart rate. J Endocrinol Invest 2008;31:289-96.
7.  Grandi AM, Piantanida E, Franzetti I, et al. Effect of glycemic control on left ventricular diastolic function in type 1 diabetes mellitus. Am J Cardiol 2006;97:71-6.
8.  Ng ACT, Delgado V, Bertini M, et al. Findings from left ventricular strain and strain rate imaging in asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Am J Cardiol 2009;104:1398-401.
9.  Mishra TK, Rath PK, Mohanty NK, Mishra SK. Left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction and their relationship with microvascular complications in normotensive, asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Indian Heart J 2008;60:548-53.
10. Ashraf SMS, Basir F. Association of hypertension and diastolic dysfunction withtype-2 diabetes mellitus. Pakistan J Med Sci 2007;23:344-8.
11. Stahrenberg R, Edelmann F, Mende M, et al. Association of glucose metabolism with diastolic function along the diabetic continuum. Diabetologia 2010;53:1331-40.
12. Dinh W, Futh R, Lankisch M, et al. Cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy contributes to left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in subjects with Type 2 diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance undergoing coronary angiography. Diabet Med 2011;28:311-8.
13. From AM, Scott CG, Chen HH. Changes in diastolic dysfunction in diabetes mellitus over time. Am J Cardiol 2009;103:1463-6.
14. Aguilar D, Deswal A, Ramasubbu K, et al. Comparison of patients with heart failure and preserved left ventricular ejection fraction among those with versus without diabetes mellitus. Am J Cardiol 2010;105:373-7.
15. Ghali JK, Boehmer J, Feldman AM, et al. Influence of diabetes on cardiac resynchronization therapy with or without defibrillator in patients with advanced heart failure. J Card Fail 2007;13:769-73.
16. Fantoni C, Regoli F, Ghanem A, et al. Long-term outcome in diabetic heart failure patients treated with cardiac resynchronization therapy. Eur J Heart Fail 2008;10:298-307.
17. Haas SJ, Vos T, Gilbert RE, et al. Are beta-blockers as efficacious in patients with diabetes mellitus as in patients without diabetes mellitus who have chronic heart failure? A meta-analysis of large-scale clinical trials. Am Heart J 2003;146:848-53.
18. Lopes RJ, Lourenco AP, Mascarenhas J, et al. Safety of spironolactone use in ambulatory heart failure patients. Clin Cardiol 2008;31:509-13.
19. Desai AS, Swedberg K, McMurray JJV, et al. Incidence and predictors of hyperkalemia in patients with heart failure. An analysis of the CHARM program. J Am Coll Cardiol 2007;50:1959-66.
20. Sadjadi SA, McMillan JI, Jaipaul N, et al. A comparative study of the prevalence of hyperkalemia with the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors versus angiotensin receptor blockers. Ther Clin Risk Manage 2009;5:547-52.
21. Phillips CO, Kashani A, Ko DK, et al. Adverse effects of combination angiotensin II receptor blockers plus angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors for left ventricular dysfunction: a quantitative review of data from randomized clinical trials. Arch Intern Med 2007;167:1930-6.
22. Raebel MA, McClure DL, Chan KA, et al. Laboratory evaluation of potassium and creatinine among ambulatory patients prescribed spironolactone: are