<PAGE>146
## 참고 문헌

1.  Pastors JG, Warshaw H, Daly A, et al. The evidence for the effectiveness of medical nutrition therapy in diabetes management. Diabetes Care 2002;25:608-13.
2.  Pi-Sunyer FX, Maggio CA, McCarron DA, et al. Multicenter randomized trial of a comprehensive prepared meal program in type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care1999;22:191-7.
3.  Franz MJ, Monk A, Barry B, et al. Effectiveness of medical nutrition therapy provided by dietitians in the management of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: a randomized, controlled clinical trial. J Am Diet Assoc 1995;95:1009-17.
4.  Kulkarni K, Castle G, Gregory R, et al. Nutrition practice guidelines for type 1 diabetes mellitus positively affect dietitian practices and patient outcomes. The Diabetes Care and Education Dietetic Practice Group. J Am Diet Assoc1998;98:62-70.
5.  Gaetke L, Stuart M, Truszczynska H, A single nutrition counseling session with a registered dietitian improves short-term clinical outcomes for rural kentucky patients with chronic diseases. J Am Diet Assoc 2006;106:109-12.
6.  Imai S, Kozai H, Matsuda M, et al. Intervention with delivery of diabetic meals improves glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Clin Biochem Nutr 2008;42:59-63.
7.  Huang M-C, Hsu C-C, Wang H-S, et al. Prospective randomized controlled trial to evaluate effectiveness of registered dietitian-led diabetes management on glycemic and diet control in a primary care setting in Taiwan. Diabetes Care 2010;33:233-9.
8.  Robbins JM, Thatcher GE, Webb DA, et al. Nutritionist visits, diabetes classes, and hospitalization rates and charges: The Urban Diabetes Study. Diabetes Care 2008;31:655-60.
9.  Willaing I, Ladelund S, Jø rgensen T, et al. Nutritional counselling in primary health care: a randomized comparison of an intervention by general practitioner or dietitian. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil 2004;11:513-20.
10. Wilson C, Brown T, Acton K, et al. Effects of clinical nutrition education and educator discipline on glycemic control outcomes in the Indian health service. Diabetes Care 2003;26:2500-4.
11. Brekke HK, Jansson PA, Lenner RA. Long-term (1- and 2-year) effects of lifestyle intervention in type 2 diabetes relatives. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2005;70:225-34.
12. Lemon CC, Lacey K, Lohse B, et al. Outcomes monitoring of health, behavior, and quality of life after nutrition intervention in adults with type 2 diabetes. J Am Diet Assoc 2004;104:1805-15.
13. Rickheim PL, Weaver TW, Flader JL, et al. Assessment of group versus individual diabetes education: a randomized study. Diabetes Care 2002;25: 269-74.
14. Trento M, Basile M, Borgo E, et al. A randomised controlled clinical trial of nurse-, dietitian- and pedagogist-led Group Care for the management of type 2 diabetes. J Endocrinol Invest 2008;31:1038-42.
15. Pérez-Escamilla R, Hromi-Fiedler A, Vega-López S, et al. Impact of peer nutrition education on dietary behaviors and health outcomes among Latinos: a systematic literature review. J Nutr Educ Behav 2008;40:208-25.
16. Ralston JD, Hirsch IB, Hoath J, et al. Web-based collaborative care for type 2 diabetes: a pilot randomized trial. Diabetes Care 2009;32:234-9.
17. Marcy TR, Britton ML, Harrison D. Identification of barriers to appropriate dietary behavior in low-income patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Ther 2011;1:9-19.
18. Health Canada. Eating Well with Canada's Food Guide. Publication H39-166/1990-. Ottawa, ON:Health Products and Food Branch, Office of Nutrition and Promotion; 2007
19. Norris SL, Engelgau MM, Narayan KM. Effectiveness of self-management training in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials. Diabetes Care 2001;24:561-87.
20. Ash S, Reeves MM, Yeo S, et al. Effect of intensive dietetic interventions on weight and glycaemic control in overweight men with Type II diabetes: a randomised trial. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord 2003;27:797-802.
21. Clement S. Diabetes self-management education. Diabetes Care 1995;18:1204-14.
22. Vallis TM, Higgins-Bowser I, Edwards L, et al. The role of diabetes education in maintaining lifestyle changes. Can J Diabetes 2005;29:193-202.
23. Christensen NK, Terry RD, Wyatt S, et al. Quantitative assessment of dietary adherence in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care 1983;6:245-50.
24. Toeller M, Klischan A, Heitkamp G, et al. Nutri-