## 1.5 입원 환자의 고혈당 관리

47. Noschese M, Donihi AC, Koerbel G, et al. Effect of a diabetes order set on glycaemic management and control in the hospital. Qual Saf Health Care 2008; 17:464-8.
48. Schnipper JL, Liang CL, Ndumele CD, et al. Effects of a computerized order set on the inpatient management of hyperglycemia: a cluster-randomized controlled trial. Endocr Pract 2010;16:209-18.
49. Wexler DJ, Shrader P, Burns SM, et al. Effectiveness of a computerized insulin order template in general medical in patients with type 2 diabetes: a cluster randomized trial. Diabetes Care 2010;33:2181-3.
50. Sampson MJ, Crowle T, Dhatariya K, et al. Trends in bed occupancy for in patients with diabetes before and after the introduction of a diabetes inpatient specialist nurse service. Diabet Med 2006;23: 1008-15.
51. Levetan CS, Salas JR, Wilets IF, et al. Impact of endocrine and diabetes team consultation on hospital length of stay for patients with diabetes. Am J Med 1995;99:22-8.
52. Koproski J, Pretto Z, Poretsky L. Effects of an intervention by a diabetes team in hospitalized patients with diabetes. Diabetes Care 1997;20:1553-5.
53. Umpierrez GE, Hellman R, Korytkowski MT, et al. Management of hyperglycemia in hospitalized patients in non-critical care setting: an endocrine society clinical practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2012;97:16-38.
54. Lewandowski K, Cheek R, Nathan DM, et al. Implementation of capillary blood glucose monitoring in a teaching hospital and determination of program requirements to maintain quality testing. Am J Med 1992;93:419-26.
55. Rumley AG. Improving the quality of near-patient blood glucose measurement. Ann Clin Biochem 1997;34:281-6.
56. Cook CB, Castro JC, Schmidt RE, et al. Diabetes care in hospitalized noncritically ill patients: more evidence for clinical inertia and negative therapeutic momentum. J Hosp Med 2007;2:203-11.
57. Institute of Safe Medical Practice. Professional practice recommendations for safe use of insulin in hospitals. http://www.ashp.org/s_ashp/docs/files/ Safe_Use_of_Insulin.pdf.
58. Bates DW, Leape LL, Cullen DJ, et al. Effect of computerized physician order entry and a team intervention on prevention of serious medication errors. JAMA 1998;280:1311-6.

<PAGE>193