192
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

25. Gandhi GY, Nuttall GA, Abel MD, et al. Intraopera- tive hyperglycemia and perioperative outcomes in cardiac surgery patients. Mayo Clin Proc 2005;80: 862-6.
26. Ouattara A, Lecomte P, Le Manach Y, et al. Poor intraoperative blood glucose control is associated with a worsened hospital outcome after cardiac surgery in diabetic patients. Anesthesiology 2005; 103:687-94.
27. Raucoules-Aime M, Lugrin D, Boussofara M, et al. Intraoperative glycaemic control in non-insulin- dependent and insulin-dependent diabetes. Br J Anaesth 1994;73:443-9.
28. Hemmerling TM, Schmid MC, Schmidt J, et al. Comparison of a continuous glucose-insulin-potas- sium infusion versus intermittent bolus application of insulin on perioperative glucose control and hormone status in insulin-treated type 2 diabetics. J Clin Anesth 2001;13:293-300.
29. Christiansen CL, Schurizek BA, Malling B, et al. Insulin treatment of the insulin-dependent diabetic patient undergoing minor surgery. Continuous intravenous infusion compared with subcutaneous administration. Anaesthesia 1988;43:533-7.
30. Suto C, Hori S, Kato S, et al. Effect of perioperative glycemic control in progression of diabetic retinop- athy and maculopathy. Arch Ophthalmol 2006;124: 38-45.
31. Kamio S, Kawasaki R, Yamashita H. Influence of systemic conditions and glycemic control on com- plications of vitrectomy for diabetic retinopathy [Japanese]. Folia Ophthalmol Jpn 2004;55:105-9.
32. Meyer C, Boron A, Plummer E, et al. Glulisine versus human regular insulin in combination with glargine in noncritically ill hospitalized patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized double-blind study. Diabetes Care 2010;33:2496-501.
33. Becker T, Moldoveanu A, Cukierman T, et al. Clini- cal outcomes associated with the use of subcutane- ous insulin-by-glucose sliding scales to manage hyperglycemia in hospitalized patients with pneu- monia. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2007;78:392-7.
34. Umpierrez G, Maynard G. Glycemic chaos (not gly- cemic control) still the rule for inpatient care: how do we stop the insanity? J Hosp Med 2006;1:141-4.
35. Clement S, Braithwaite SS, Magee MF, et al. Man- agement of diabetes and hyperglycemia in hospi- tals. Diabetes Care 2004;27:553-91.
36. Umpierrez GE, Palacio A, Smiley D. Sliding scale insulin use: myth or insanity? Am J Med 2007;120: 563-7.
37. Umpierrez GE, Smiley D, Zisman A, et al. Random- ized study of basal-bolus insulin therapy in the inpatient management of patients with type 2 dia- betes (RABBIT 2 trial). Diabetes Care 2007;30:2181- 6.
38. Umpierrez GE, Smiley D, Jacobs S, et al. Random- ized study of basal-bolus insulin therapy in the inpatient management of patients with type 2 diabetes undergoing general surgery (RABBIT 2 surgery). Diabetes Care 2011;34:256-61.
39. Wesorick D, O'Malley C, Rushakoff R, et al. Man- agement of diabetes and hyperglycemia in the hos- pital: a practical guide to subcutaneous insulin use in the non-critically ill, adult patient. J Hosp Med 2008;3(suppl 5):17-28.
40. Curll M, Dinardo M, Noschese M, Korytkowski MT. Meal selection, glycaemic control and satisfaction with standard and patient-controlled consistent car- bohydrate meal plans in hospitalized patients with diabetes. Qual Saf Health Care 2010;19:355-9.
41. Donihi AC, Raval D, Saul M, et al. Prevalence and predictors of corticosteroid-related hyperglycemia in hospitalized patients. Endocr Pract 2006;12:358- 62.
42. Bailon RM, Partlow BJ, Miller-Cage V, et al. Contin- uous subcutaneous insulin (insulin pump) therapy can be safely used in the hospital in select patients. Endocr Pract 2009;15:25-9.
43. Goldberg PA, Siegel MD, Sherwin RS, et al. Imple- mentation of a safe and effective insulin infusion protocol in a medical intensive care unit. Diabetes Care 2004;27:461-7.
44. Schmeltz LR, DeSantis AJ, Schmidt K, et al. Conver- sion of intravenous insulin infusions to subcutane- ously administered insulin glargine in patients with hyperglycemia. Endocr Pract 2006;12:641-50.
45. Bode BW, Braithwaite SS, Steed RD, Davidson PC. Intravenous insulin infusion therapy: indications, methods, and transition to subcutaneous insulin therapy. Endocr Pract 2004;10(suppl 2):71-80.
46. Maynard G, Lee J, Phillips G. Improved inpatient use of basal insulin, reduced hypoglycemia, and improved glycemic control: effect of structured subcutaneous insulin order sets and an insulin management algorithm. J Hosp Med 2009;4:3-15.
<PAGE>192