67. Gonzalez JS, Safren SA, Delahanty LM, et al. Symptoms of depression prospectively predict poorer self-care in patients with Type 2 diabetes. Diabet Med 2008;25:1102-7.
68. Egede LE, Grubaugh AI, Ellis C. The effect of major depression on preventive care and quality of life among adults with diabetes, Gen Hosp Psychiatry 2010;32:563-9.
69. Richardson LK, Egede LE, Mueller M. Effect of race/ethnicity and persistent recognition of depression on mortality in elderly men with type 2 diabetes and depression, Diabetes Care 2008;31:880-1.
70. Hutter N, Schnurr A, Baumeister H. Healthcare costs in patients with diabetes mellitus and comorbid mental disorders: a systematic review. Diabetologia 2010;53:2470-9.
71. Li C, Ford ES, Zhao G, et al. Prevalence and correlates of undiagnosed depression among U.S. adults with diabetes: the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, 2006. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2009;83:268-79.
72. Fisher L, Skaff MM, Mullan JT, et al. Clinical depression versus distress among patients with type 2 diabetes: not just a question of semantics. Diabetes Care 2007;30:542-8.
73. Gonzalez JS, Fisher L, Polonsky WH. Depression in diabetes: have we been missing something important? Diabetes Care 2011;34:236-9.
74. Fisher L, Glasgow RE, Strycker LA. The relationship between diabetes distress and clinical depression with glycemic control among patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1034-6.
75. Fisher L, Mullan JT, Arean P, et al. Diabetes distress but not clinical depression or depressive symptoms is associated with glycemic control in both cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses. Diabetes Care 2010;33:23-8.
76. Pignone MP, Gaynes BN, Rushton JL, et al. Screening for depression in adults, a summary of the evidence for the US Preventative Services Task Force. Ann Intern Med 2002;136:765-76.
77. Polonsky WH, Anderson BJ, Lohrer PA, et al. Assessment of diabetes-related distress. Diabetes Care 1995;18:754-60.
78. van Bastelaar KM, Pouwer F, Geelhoed-Duijvestijn PH, et al. Diabetes-specific emotional distress mediates the association between depressive symptoms and glycaemic control in Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Diabet Med 2010;27:798-803.
79. Polonsky WH, Fisher L, Earles J, et al. Assessing psychosocial distress in diabetes: development of the diabetes distress scale. Diabetes Care 2005;28:626-31.
80. Furuya M, Hayashino Y, Tsuji S, et al. Comparative validity of the WHO-5 Well-Being Index and two-question instrument for screening depressive symptoms in patients with type 2 diabetes. Acta Diabetol; 2010 Aug 27[Epuba head of print].
81. Collins MM, Corcoran P, Perry IJ. Anxiety and depression symptoms in patients with diabetes. Diabet Med 2009;26:153-61.
82. Kroenke K, Spitzer RL. The PHQ-9: a new depression diagnostic and severity measure. Psychiatr Ann 2002;32:509-21.
83. van Steenbergen-Weijenburg KM, de Vroege L, Ploeger RR, et al. Validation of the PHQ-9 as a screening instrument for depression in diabetes patients in specialized outpatient clinics. BMC Health Serv Res 2010;10:235.
84. Fisher L, Skaff MM, Mullan JT, et al. A longitudinal study of affective and anxiety disorders, depressive affect and diabetes distress in adults with Type 2 diabetes. Diabet Med 2008;25:1096-101.
85. Mantyselka P, Korniloff K, Saaristo T, et al. Association of depressive symptoms with impaired glucose regulation, screen-detected, and previously known type 2 diabetes: findings from the Finnish D2D Survey. Diabetes Care 2011;34:71-6.
86. Piatt GA, Anderson RM, Brooks MM, et al. 3-year follow-up of clinical and behavioral improvements following a multifaceted diabetes care intervention: results of a randomized controlled trial. Diabetes Educ 2010;36:301-9.
87. Osborn CY, Egede LE. Validation of an Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills model of diabetes self-care (IMB-DSC). Patient Educ Couns 2010;79:49-54.
88. Maindal HT, Sandbaek A, Kirkevold M, Lauritzen T. Effect on motivation, perceived competence, and activation after participation in the 'Ready to Act' programme for people with screen-detected dysglycaemia: a 1-year randomised controlled trial. Addition-DK. Scand J Public Health 2011;39:262-71.
89. Attari A, Sartippour M, Amini M, Haghighi S. Effect of stress management training on glycemic control in patients with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2006;73:23-8.
90. Soo H, Lam S. Stress management training in diabetes mellitus. J Health Psychol 2009;14:933-43.
91. Keogh KM, Smith SM, White P, et al. Psychologi-
<PAGE>214