212 KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

15. Eaton W, Shao H, Nestadt G, et al. Population- based study of first onset and chronicity in major depressive disorder. Arch Gen Psychiatry 2008;65: 513-20.
16. Kendler KS, Karkowski LM, Prescott CA. Causal relationship between stressful life events and the on- set of major depression. Am J Psychiatry 1999;156: 837-41.
17. Carvalhais S, Lima-Costa M, Peixoto S, et al. The influence of socio-economic conditions on the prevalence of depressive symptoms and its covari- ates in an elderly population with slight income differences; the Bambui Health and Aging Study. Int J Soc Psychiatry 2008;54:447-56.
18. Katon W, Russo J, Lin EHB, et al. Depression and diabetes: factors associated with major depression at five-year follow-up. Psychosomatics 2009;50:570-9.
19. Bruce DG, Davis WA, Davis TME. Longitudinal predictors of reduced mobility and physical disabil- ity in patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2005;28:2441-7.
20. Lawlor DA, Smith GD, Ebrahim S. Association of insulin resistance with depression: cross sectional findings from the British Women's Heart and Health Study. BMJ 2003;327:1383-4.
21. Timonen M, Salmenkaita I, Jokelainen J, et al. In- sulin resistance and depressive symptoms in young adult males: findings from Finnish military con- scripts. Psychosom Med 2007;69:723-8.
22. Okamura F, Tashiro A, Utumi A, et al. Insulin resis- tance in patients with depression and its changes during the clinical course of depression: minimal model analysis. Metabolism 2000;49:1255-60.
23. Anagnostis P. Clinical review: the pathogenetic role of cortisol in the metabolic syndrome: a hypoth- esis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2009;94:2692-701.
24. Pariante C, Miller A. Glucocorticoid receptors in major depression: relevance to pathophysiology and treatment. Biol Psychiatry 2001;49:391-404.
25. Belmaker R, Agam G. Major depressive disorder. N Engl J Med 2008;358:55-68.
26. Ciechanowski PS, Katon WJ, Russo JE. Depression and diabetes: impact of depressive symptoms on adherence, function, and costs. Arch Int Med 2000; 160:3278-85.
27. Lin EHB, Katon W, Von Korff M, et al. Relationship of depression and diabetes self-care, medication adherence, and preventative care. Diabetes Care 2004;27:2154-60.
28. Katon WJ, Rutter C, Simon G. The association of comorbid depression with mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2005;28:2668-72.
29. Zhang X, Norris SL, Gregg EW. Depressive symp- toms and mortality among persons with and with- out diabetes. Am J Epidemiol 2005;161:652-60.
30. Lustman PJ, Clouse RE, Freedland KE, et al. Effects of nortriptyline on depression and glucose regula- tion in diabetes: results of a double-blind placebo- controlled trial. Psychosom Med 1997;59:241-50.
31. Lustman PJ, Freedland KE, Griffith L, et al. Fluox- etine for depression in diabetes: a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Diabetes Care 2000;23:618-23.
32. Lustman PJ, Clouse RE, Nix BD, et al. Sertraline for prevention of depression recurrence in diabetes mellitus. Arch Gen Psychiatry 2006;63:521-9.
33. Lustman PJ, Griffith LS, Freedland KE, et al. Cogni- tive behaviour therapy for depression in type 2 dia- betes mellitus. A randomized, controlled trial. Ann Intern Med 1998;129:613-21.
34. Fagiolini A, Frank E, Scott JA, et al. Metabolic syndrome in bipolar disorder: findings from the Bi- polar Disorder Center for Pennsylvanians. Bipolar Disord 2005;7:424-30.
35. Taylor V, MacQueen G. Associations between bi- polar disorder and metabolic syndrome: a review. J Clin Psychiatry 2006;67:1034-41.
36. van Winkel R, De Hert M, Van Eyck D, et al. Prev- alence of diabetes and the metabolic syndrome in a sample of patients with bipolar disorder. Bipolar Disord 2008;10:342-8.
37. Katon WJ, Lin EH, Kroenke K. The association of depression and anxiety with the medical symptom burden in patients with chronic medical illness. Gen Hosp Psychiatry 2007;29:147-55.
38. Grigsby AB, Anderson RJ, Freedland KE, et al. Prevalence of anxiety in adults with diabetes: a sys- tematic review. J Psychosom Res 2004;27:1053-60.
39. Crow S, Kendall D, Praus B, et al. Binge eating and other psychopathology in patients with type II dia- betes mellitus. Int J Eat Disord 2000;30:222-6.
40. Jones JM, Lawson ML, Daneman D. Eating disorders in adolescent females with and without type 1 dia- betes: cross sectional study. BMJ 2000;320:1563-6.
41. McCarthy M. The thin ideal, depression and eating disorders in women. Behav Res Ther 1990;28:205- 14.