14 고혈당 응급 상황
<PAGE>181

26. Devalia B. Adherence to protocol during the acute management of diabetic ketoacidosis: would specialist involvement lead to better outcomes? Int J Clin Pract 2010;64:1580-2.
27. Salahuddin M, Anwar MN. Study on effectiveness of guidelines and high dependency unit management on diabetic ketoacidosis patients. J Postgrad Med Inst 2009;23:120-3.
28. Kreisberg RA. Diabetic ketoacidosis: new concepts and trends in pathogenesis and treatment. Ann Intern Med 1978;88:681-95.
29. Ennis ED, Stahl EJ, Kreisberg RA. The hyperosmolar hyperglycemic syndrome. Diabetes Rev 1994;2:115-26.
30. Mahoney CP, Vlcek BW, DelAguila M. Risk factors for developing brain herniation during diabetic ketoacidosis. Pediatr Neurol 1999;2:721-7.
31. Rosenbloom AL. Intracerebral crises during treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis. Diabetes Care 1990;13:22-33.
32. Adrogue HJ, Barrero J, Eknoyan G. Salutary effects of modest fluid replacement in the treatment of adults with diabetic ketoacidosis. JAMA 1989;262:2108-13.
33. Fein IA, Rackow EC, Sprung CL, et al. Relation of colloid osmotic pressure to arterial hypoxemia and cerebral edema during crystalloid volume loading of patients with diabetic ketoacidosis. Ann Intern Med 1982;96:570-5.
34. Owen OE, Licht JH, Sapir DG. Renal function and effects of partial rehydration during diabetic ketoacidosis. Diabetes 1981;30:510-8.
35. Kitabchi AE, Ayyagari V, Guerra SM, et al. The efficacy of low dose versus conventional therapy of insulin for treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis. Ann Intern Med 1976;84:633-8.
36. Heber D, Molitch ME, Sperling MA. Low-dose continuous insulin therapy for diabetic ketoacidosis. Prospective comparison with ‘conventional’ insulin therapy. Arch Intern Med 1977;137:1377-80.
37. Butkiewicz EK, Leibson CL, O’Brien PC, et al. Insulin therapy for diabetic ketoacidosis. Bolus insulin injection versus continuous insulin infusion. Diabetes Care 1995;18:1187-90.
38. Kitabchi AE, Murphy MB, Spencer J, et al. Is a priming dose of insulin necessary in a low-dose insulin protocol for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis? Diabetes Care 2008;31:2081-5.
39. Fort P, Waters SM, Lifshitz F. Low-dose insulin infusion in the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis: bolus versus no bolus. J Pediatr 1980;96:36-40.
40. Lindsay R, Bolte RG. The use of an insulin bolus in low-dose insulin infusion for pediatric diabetic ketoacidosis. Pediatr Emerg Care 1989;5:77-9.
41. Della Manna T, Steinmetz L, Campos PR, et al. Subcutaneous use of a fast-acting insulin analog: an alternative treatment for pediatric patients with diabetic ketoacidosis. Diabetes Care 2005;28:1856-61.
42. Umpierrez GE, Latif K, Stoever J, et al. Efficacy of subcutaneous insulin lispro versus continuous intravenous regular insulin for the treatment of patients with diabetic ketoacidosis. Am J Med 2004;117:291-6.
43. Umpierrez GE, Cuervo R, Karabell A, et al. Treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis with subcutaneous insulin aspart. Diabetes Care 2004;27:1873-88.
44. Wiggam MI, O’Kane MJ, Harper R, et al. Treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis using normalization of blood 3-hydroxybutyrate concentration as the end-point of emergency management. Diabetes Care 1997;20:1347-52.
45. Waldhausl W, Kleinberger G, Korn A, et al. Severe hyperglycemia: effects of rehydration on endocrine derangements and blood glucose concentration. Diabetes 1979;28:577-84.
46. Gerich JE, Martin MM, Recant LL. Clinical and metabolic characteristics of hyperosmolar nonketotic coma. Diabetes 1971;20:228-38.
47. Morris LR, Murphy MB, Kitabchi AE. Bicarbonate therapy in severe diabetic ketoacidosis. Ann Intern Med 1986;105:836-40.
48. Gamba G, Osegura J, Castrejon M, et al. Bicarbonate therapy in severe diabetic ketoacidosis: a double blind, randomized placebo controlled trial. Rev Invest Clin 1991;43:234-48.
49. Hale PJ, Grase J, Nattrass M. Metabolic effects of bicarbonate in the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis. Br Med J Clin Res Ed 1984;289:1035-8.
50. Soler NG, Bennet MA, Dixon K, et al. Potassium balance during treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis with special reference to the use of bicarbonate. Lancet 1972;2:665-7.
51. Carlotti AP, Bohn D, Mallie JP, et al. Tonicity balance, and not electrolyte-free water calculations, more accurately guides therapy for acute changes in natremia. Intensive Care Med 2001;27:921-4.