122
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

9.  Weykamp C, John WG, Mosca A, et al. The IFCC reference measurement system for HbA1c: a 6-year progress report. Clin Chem 2008;54:240-8.
10. Karter AJ, Ackerson LM, Darbinian JA, et al. Self-monitoring of blood glucose levels and glycemic control: the Northern California Kaiser Permanente Diabetes Registry. Am J Med 2001;111:1-9.
11. Karter AJ, Parker MM, Moffet HH, et al. Longitudinal study of new and prevalent use of self-monitoring of blood glucose. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1757-63.
12. Malekiani CL, Ganesan A, Decker CF. Effect of hemoglobinopathies on hemoglobin A1c measurements. Am J Med 2008;121:e6.
13. Parkin CG, Davidson JA. Value of self-monitoring blood glucose pattern analysis in improving diabetes outcomes. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2009;3:500-8.
14. Franciosi M, Pellegrini F, De Berardis G, et al, QuED Study Group. The impact of blood glucose self-monitoring on metabolic control and quality of life in type 2 diabetic patients: an urgent need for better educational strategies. Diabetes Care 2001; 24:1870-7.
15. Norris SL, Lau J, Smith SJ, et al. Self-management education for adults with type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis of the effect on glycemic control. Diabetes Care 2002;25:1159-71.
16. Polonsky WH, Earles J, Smith S, et al. Integrating medical management with diabetes self-management training: a randomized control trial of the Diabetes Outpatient Intensive Treatment program. Diabetes Care 2003;26:3048-53.
17. Polonsky WH, Fisher L, Schikman CH, et al. Structured self-monitoring of blood glucose significantly reduces A1C levels in poorly controlled, noninsulin-treated type 2 diabetes: results from the Structured Testing Program study. Diabetes Care 2011;34:262-7.
18. Sheppard P, Bending JJ, Huber JW. Pre- and post-prandial capillary glucose self-monitoring achieves better glycaemic control than pre-prandial only monitoring. A study in insulin treated diabetic patients. Practical Diabetes Int 2005;22:15-22.
19. Murata GH, Shah JH, Hoffman RM, et al, Diabetes Outcomes in Veterans Study (DOVES). Intensified blood glucose monitoring improves glycemic control instable, insulin-treated veterans with type 2 diabetes: the Diabetes Outcomes in Veterans Study (DOVES). Diabetes Care 2003;26:1759-63.
20. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Research Group. The effect of intensive treatment of diabetes on the development and progression of long-term complications in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. N Engl J Med1993;329:977-86.
21. Epidemiology of severe hypoglycemia in the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial. The DCCT Research Group. Am J Med 1991;90:450-9.
22. Gale EAM, Tattersall RB. Unrecognised nocturnal hypoglycaemia in insulin-treated diabetics. Lancet 1979;1:1049-52.
23. Vervoort G, Goldschmidt HM, van Doorn LG. Nocturnal blood glucose profiles in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus on multiple(> or ⁴) daily insulin injection regimens. Diabet Med 1996;13:794-9.
24. Jones TW, Porter P, Sherwin RS, et al. Decreased epinephrine responses to hypoglycemia during sleep. N Engl J Med 1998;338:1657-62.
25. Boutati EI, Raptis SA. Self-Monitoring of blood glucose as part of the integral care of type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2009;32(suppl 2):S205-10.
26. Faas A, Schellevis FG, van Eijk JT. The efficacy of self-monitoring of blood glucose in NIDDM subjects. A criteria-based literature review. Diabetes Care1997;20:1482-6.
27. Harris MI, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey(NHANES III).Frequency of blood glucose monitoring in relation to glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2001; 24:979-82.
28. Coster S, Gulliford MC, Seed PT, et al. Self-monitoring in type 2 diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis. Diabet Med 2000;17:755-61.
29. Welschen LM, Bloemendal E, Nijpels G, et al. Self-monitoring of blood glucose in patients with type 2 diabetes who are not using insulin: a systematic review. Diabetes Care 2005;28:1510-7.
30. Welschen LM, Bloemendal E, Nijpels G, et al. Self-monitoring of blood glucose in patients with type 2 diabetes who are not using insulin. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2005;2:CD005060.
31. Davidson MB, Castellanos M, Kain D, et al. The effect of self monitoring of blood glucose concentrations on glycated hemoglobin levels in diabetic patients not taking insulin: a blinded, randomized trial. Am J Med 2005;118:422-5.
32. Davis WA, Bruce DG, Davis TM. Is self-monitoring of blood glucose appropriate for all type 2 diabetic
<PAGE>122