88
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

14. DREAM(Diabetes Reduction Assessment with ramipril and rosiglitazone Medication) Trial Investigators Gerstein HC, Yusuf S, Bosch J, et al. Effect of rosiglitazone on the frequency of diabetes in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or impaired fasting glucose: a randomized controlled trial. Lancet 2006;368:1096-105.
15. DREAM Trial Investigators Bosch J, Yusuf S, Gerstein HC. Effect of ramipril on the incidence of diabetes. N Engl J Med 2006;355:1551-62.
16. DeFronzo RA, Tripathy D, Schwenke DC, et al. Pioglitazone for diabetes prevention in impaired glucose tolerance. N Engl J Med 2011;364:1104-15.
17. Zinman B, Harris SB, Neuman J, et al. Low-dose combination therapy with rosiglitazone and metformin to prevent type 2 diabetes mellitus (CANOE trial): a double-blind randomised controlled study. Lancet 2010;376:103-11.
18. Chiasson JL, Josse RG, Gomis R, et al, STOP-NIDDM Trial Research Group. Acarbose for prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus: the STOP-NIDDM randomised trial. Lancet 2002;359:2072-7.
19. Chiasson JL, Josse RG, Gomis R, et al, STOP-NIDDM Trial Research Group. Acarbose treatment and the risk of cardiovascular disease and hypertension in patients with impaired glucose tolerance: the STOP-NIDDM trial. JAMA 2003;290:486-94.
20. Hanefeld M, Chiasson JL, Koehler C, et al. Acarbose slows progression of intima-media thickness of the carotid arteries in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance. Stroke 2004;35:1073-8.
21. Torgerson JS, Hauptman J, Boldrin MN, et al, XENIcal in the prevention of diabetes in obese subjects (XENDOS) study: a randomized study of orlistat as an adjunct to lifestyle changes for the prevention of type 2 diabetes in obese patients. Diabetes Care 2004;27:155-61.
22. A. Astrup S. Rossner L. Van Gaal NN8022–1807 Study Group Effects of liraglutide in the treatment of obesity: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study Lancet 374 2009; 1606 -16
<PAGE>88