11 임상영양 치료
151

114. Gougeon R, Spidel M, Lee K, et al. Canadian Diabetes Association National Nutrition Committee Technical Review: non-nutritive intense sweeteners in diabetes management. Can J Diabetes 2004;28: 385-99.
115. JECFA 2008: Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives. Sixty-ninth meeting, Rome, Italy, June 17-26, 2008.
116. Maki KC, Curry LL, Reeves MS, et al. Chronic consumption of rebaudioside A, a steviol glycoside, in men and women with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Food Chem Toxicol 2008;46:S47-53.
117. Barriocanal LA, Palacios M, Benitez G, et al. Appar- ent lack of pharmacological effect of steviol glycosides used as sweeteners in humans. A pilot study of repeated exposures in some normotensive and hypotensive individuals and in Type 1 and Type 2 diabetics. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol 2008;51:37-41.
118. Wang YM, van Eys J. Nutritional significance of fructose and sugar alcohols. Annu Rev Nutr 1981;1: 437-75.
119. Wolever TMS, Piekarz A, Hollands M, et al. Sugar alcohols and diabetes: a review. Can J Diabetes 2002;26:356-62.
120. Stirban A, Negrean M, Götting C, et al. Dietary advanced glycation end-products and oxidative stress: in vivo effects on endothelial function and adipokines. Ann N Y Acad Sci 2008;1126:276-9.
121. Negrean M, Stirban A, Stratmann B, et al. Effects of low- and high-advanced glycation endproduct meals on macro- and microvascular endothelial function and oxidative stress in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Am J Clin Nutr 2007;85:1236-43.
122. Uribarri J, Cai W, Ramdas M, et al. Restriction of advanced glycation end products improves insulin resistance in human type 2 diabetes: potential role of AGER1 and SIRT1. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1610-6.
123. Heymsfield SB, van Mierlo CA, van der Knaap HC, et al. Weight management using a meal replacement strategy: meta and pooling analysis from six studies. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord 2003;27:537-49.
124. Li Z, Hong K, Saltsman P, et al. Long-term efficacy of soy-based meal replacements vs an individual- ized diet plan in obese type II DM patients: relative effects on weight loss, metabolic parameters, and C-reactive protein. Eur J Clin Nutr 2005;59:411-8.
125. Cheskin LJ, Mitchell AM, Jhaveri AD, et al. Efficacy of meal replacements versus a standard food-based diet for weight loss in type 2 diabetes: a controlled clinical trial. Diabetes Educ 2008;34:118-27.
126. Yip I, Go VL, DeShields S, et al. Liquid meal re- placements and glycemic control in obese type 2 diabetes patients. Obes Res 2001;9:341Se74S.
127. Wadden TA, West DS, Neiberg RH, et al. One-year weight losses in the Look AHEAD study: factors as- sociated with success. Obesity 2009;17:713-22.
128. McCargar L, Innis S, Bowron E, et al. Effect of en- teral nutritional products differing in carbohydrate and fat on indices of carbohydrate and lipid metab- olism in patients with NIDDM. Mol Cell Biochem 1998;188:81-9.
129. Lansink M, van Laere KM, Vendrig L, et al. Lower postprandial glucose responses at baseline and after 4 weeks use of a diabetes-specific formula in diabetes type 2 patients. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2011;93:421-9.
130. Stockwell T, Zhao J, Thomas G. Should alcohol policies aim to reduce total alcohol consumption? New analyses of Canadian drinking patterns. Ad- dict Res Theory 2009;17:135-51.
131. Butt P, Beirness D, Cesa F, et al. Alcohol and health in Canada: a summary of evidence and guidelines for low-risk drinking. Ottawa, ON: Ca- nadian Centre on Substance Abuse;2011.
132. Kerr D, Macdonald IA, Heller SR, et al. Alcohol causes hypoglycaemic unawareness in healthy volunteers and patients with type 1 (insulin-depen- dent) diabetes. Diabetologia 1990;33:216-21.
133. Kerr D, Penfold S, Zouwail S, et al. The influence of liberal alcohol consumption on glucose metabo- lism in patients with type 1 diabetes: a pilot study. QJM 2009;102:169-74.
134. Koppes LLJ, Dekker JM, Hendricks HFJ, et al. Meta-analysis of the relationship between alco- hol consumption and coronary heart disease and mortality in type 2 diabetic patients. Diabetologia 2006;49:648-52.
135. Bantle AE, Thomas W, Bantle JP. Metabolic effects of alcohol in the form of wine in persons with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Metabolism 2008;57:241-5.
136. Marfella R, Cacciapuoti F, Siniscalchi M, et al. Ef- fect of moderate red wine intake on cardiac prog- nosis after recent acute myocardial infarction of subjects with Type 2 diabetes mellitus. Diabet Med 2006;23:974-81.
137. Nakamura T, Fujiwara N, Sugaya T, et al. Effect of red wine on urinary protein, 8-hydroxydeoxy guanosine, and liver-type fatty acid-binding protein

<PAGE>151