150
KNDP 당뇨병 임상 진료지침 Clinical Practice Guidelines

93. Larsen RN, Mann NJ, Maclean E, et al. The effect of high-protein, low-carbohydrate diets in the treatment of type 2 diabetes: a 12 month randomised controlled trial. Diabetologia 2011;54:731-40.
94. McLaughlin T, Carter S, Lamendola C, et al. Clinical efficacy of two hypo-caloric diets that vary in overweight patients with type 2 diabetes: comparison of moderate fat versus carbohydrate reductions. Diabetes Care 2007;30:1877-9.
95. Brinkworth GD, Noakes M, Parker B, et al. Long-term effects of advice to consume a high-protein, low-fat diet, rather than a conventional weight-loss diet, in obese adults with Type 2 diabetes: one-year follow-up of a randomized trial. Diabetologia 2004;47:1677-86.
96. Pearce KL, Clifton PM, Noakes M. Egg consumption as part of an energy-restricted high-protein diet improves blood lipid and blood glucose profiles in individuals with type 2 diabetes. Br J Nutr 2011;105:585-92.
97. Haimoto H, Iwata M, Wakai K, et al. Long-term effects of a diet loosely restricting carbohydrates on HbA1c levels, BMI and tapering of sulfonylureasin type 2 diabetes: a 2-year follow-up study. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2008;79:350-6.
98. Davis NJ, Tomuta N, Schechter C, et al. Comparative study of the effects of a 1-year dietary intervention of a low-carbohydrate diet versus a low-fat diet on weight and glycemic control in type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2009;32:1147-52.
99. Gong Q, Gregg EW, Wang J, et al. Long-term effects of a randomised trial of a 6-year lifestyle intervention in impaired glucose tolerance on diabetes-related microvascular complications: the China Da Qing Diabetes Prevention Outcome Study. Diabetologia 2011;54:300-7.
100. Mann JI, De Leeuw I, Hermansen K, et al. Evidence-based nutritional approaches to the treatment and prevention of diabetes mellitus. Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis 2004;14:373-94.
101. Coppell KJ, Kataoka M, Williams SM, et al. Nutritional intervention in patients with type 2 diabetes who are hyperglycaemic despite optimised drug treatment-Lifestyle Over and Above Drugs in Diabetes (LOADDD) study: randomised controlled trial. BMJ 2010;341:c3337.
102. Jenkins DJ, Kendall CW, Banach MS, et al. Nuts as a replacement for carbohydrates in the diabetic diet. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1706-11.
103. Cohen AE, Johnston CS. Almond ingestion at mealtime reduces postprandial glycemia and chronic ingestion reduces hemoglobin A1C in individuals with well-controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus. Metabolism 2011;60:1312-7.
104. Li S-C, Liu Y-H, Liu J-F, et al. Almond consumption improved glycemic control and lipid profiles in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Metabolism 2011;60:474-9.
105. Lovejoy JC, Most MM, Lefevre M, et al. Effect of diets enriched in almonds on insulin action and serum lipids in adults with normal glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes. Am J Clin Nutr 2002;76:1000-6.
106. Sabaté J, Oda K, Ros E. Nut consumption and blood lipid levels. Arch Intern Med 2010;170:821-7.
107. Wolever TM, Hamad S, Chiasson JL, et al. Day-to-day consistency in amount and source of carbohydrate in type 1 diabetes. J Am Coll Nutr 1999;18:242-7.
108. Savoca MR, Miller CK, Ludwig DA. Food habits are related to glycemic control among people with type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Am Diet Assoc 2004;104:560-6.
109. Kalergis M, Schiffﬁn A, Gougeon R, et al. Impact of bedtime snack composition on prevention of nocturnal hypoglycemia in adults with type 1 diabetes undergoing intensive insulin management using lispro insulin before meals: a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. Diabetes Care 2003;26:9-15.
110. Arnold L, Mann JI, Ball MJ. Metabolic effects of alterations in meal frequency in type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 1997;20:1651-4.
111. Bergenstal RM, Johnson M, Powers MA, et al. Adjust to target in type 2 diabetes: comparison of a simple algorithm with carbohydrate counting for adjustment of mealtime insulin glulisine. Diabetes Care 2008;31:1305-10.
112. Kelley DE. Sugars and starch in the nutritional management of diabetes mellitus. Am J Clin Nutr 2003;78:858S-64S.
113. Rossi MC, Nicolucci A, Di Bartolo P, et al. Diabetes Interactive Diary: a new telemedicine system enabling flexible diet and insulin therapy while improving quality of life: an open-label, international, multicenter, randomized study. Diabetes Care 2010;33:109-15.
<PAGE>150