## 12 2형 당뇨병의 약제 치료
21. Raz I, Wilson PW, Strojek K, et al. Effects of prandial versus fasting glycemia on cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes: the HEART2D trial. Diabetes Care 2009;32:381-6.
22. Garber AJ, Larsen J, Schneider SH, et al. Simultaneous glibenclamide/metformin therapy is superior to component monotherapy as an initial pharmacological treatment for type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Obes Metab 2002;4:201-8.
23. Rosenstock J, Goldstein BJ, Vinik AI, et al. Effect of early addition of rosiglitazone to sulphonylurea therapy in older type 2 diabetes patients (> 60years): the Rosiglitazone Early vs. Sulphonylurea Titration(RESULT) study. Diabetes Obes Metab 2006;8:49-57.
24. Rosenstock J, Rood J, Cobitz A, et al. Improvement in glycaemic control withrosiglitazone/metformin fixed-dose combination therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes with very poor glycaemic control. Diabetes Obes Metab 2006;8: 643-9.
25. Rosenstock J, Rood J, Cobitz A, et al. Initial treatment with rosiglitazone/metformin fixed-dose combination therapy compared with monotherapy with either rosiglitazone or metformin in patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Obes Metab 2006;8:650-60.
26. UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Group. Effect of intensive blood-glucose control with metformin on complications in overweight patients with type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 34). Lancet 1998;352: 854-65.
27. Boussageon R, Supper I, Bejan-Angoulvant T, et al. Reappraisal of metformin efficacy in the treatment of type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. PLoS Med 2012;9:e1001204.
28. Kahn SE, Haffner SM, Heise MA, et al. Glycemic durability of rosiglitazone, metformin, or glyburide monotherapy. N Engl J Med 2006;355:2427-43.
29. Meymeh RH, Wooltortton E. Diabetes drug pioglitazone (Actos): risk of fracture. CMAJ 2007;177:723-4.
30. Kahn SE, Zinman B, Lachin JM, et al, A Diabetes Outcome Progression Trial (ADOPT) Study Group. Rosiglitazone-associated fractures in type 2 diabetes: an analysis from A Diabetes Outcome Progression Trial. Diabetes Care 2008;31:845-51.
31. Nissen SE,Wolski K. Effect of rosiglitazone on the risk of myocardial infarction and death from cardiovascular causes. N Engl J Med 2007;356:2457-71.
32. Nissen SE, Wolski K, Rosiglitazone revisited: an updated meta-analysis of risk for myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality. Arch Intern Med 2010;170:1191-201.
33. Home PD, Pocock SJ, Beck-Nielsen H, et al. Rosiglitazone evaluated for cardiovascular outcomes in oral agent combination therapy for type 2 diabetes (RECORD): a multicentre, randomised, open-label trial. Lancet 2009;373:2125-35.
34. Home PD, Pocock SJ, Beck-Nielsen H, et al. Rosiglitazone evaluated for cardiovascular outcomes: an interim analysis. N Engl J Med 2007;357:28-38.
35. Dormandy JA, Charbonnel B, Eckland DJ, et al. Secondary prevention of macrovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes in the PROactive Study (PROspective pioglitAzone Clinical Trial In macroVascular Events): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2005;366:1279-89.
36. Lincoff AM, Wolski K, Nicholls SJ, Nissen SE. Pioglitazone and risk of cardiovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis of randomized trials. JAMA 2007;298:1180-8.
37. Liu SC, Tu YK, Chien KL. Effect of antidiabetic agents added to metformin on glycemic control, hypoglycemia, and weight change in patients with type 2 diabetes: a network meta-analysis. Diabetes Obes Metab 2012;14:810-20.
38. Ray KK, Seshasai SR, Wijesuriya S, et al. Effect of intensive control of glucose on cardiovascular outcomes and death in patients with diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Lancet 2009;373:1765.
39. Kelly TN, Bazzano LA, Fonseca VA, et al. Systematic review: glucose control and cardiovascular disease in type 2 diabetes. Ann Intern Med 2009;151:394.
40. Boussageon R, Bejan-Angoulvant T, Saadatian-Elahi M, et al. Effect of intensive glucose lowering treatment on all cause mortality, cardiovascular death, and macrovascular events in type 2 diabetes: meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ 2011;343:d4169.
41. Chiasson JL, Josse RG, Gomis R, et al, STOP-NIDDM Trial Research Group. Acarbose treatment and the risk of cardiovascular disease and hypertension in patients with impaired glucose tolerance: the STOP-NIDDM trial. JAMA 2003;290: 486-94.
42. Gaziano JM, Cincotta AH, O'Connor CM, et al. Randomised clinical trial of quick-release bromocrip-

<PAGE>163