## 참고 문헌

1.  신경환, 김재찬, 김원식 등. 한국백내장 역학 조사회에 의한 노인성 백내장의 제반 위험인자에 관한 연구 조사, 한안지 1992;33:127-134
2.  American Academy of Ophthalmology, Cataract in the Adult Eyes, 2011, p7
3.  American Optometric Association, Care of the Adult Patient with Cataract, 2010, p18
4.  American Academy of Ophthalmology, Cataract in the Adult Eyes, 2011, p14-15
5.  Varma SD, Kovtun S. Role of ultraviolet irradiation and oxidative stress in cataract formation-medical prevention by nutritional antioxidants and metabolic agonist. Eye Contact Lens 2011; 233-45
6.  Worzala K, Hiller R. Postmenopausal estrogen use, type of menopause, and lens opacities: the Framingham studies. Arch Intern Med. 2001 Jun 11;161(11):1448-54.
7.  Hiller R, Podgor MJ. A longitudinal study of body mass index and lens opacities. The Framingham studies. Ophthalmology. 1998; 105(7): 1244-50
8.  Hiller R, Sperduto RD. Cigarette smoking and the risk of development of lens opacities. The Framingham studies. Arch Ophthalmol. 1997 Sep;115(9):1113-8.
9.  Migilor S, Marighi PE. Risk factors for cortical, nuclear, posterior subcapsular and mixed cataract: a case-control study. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 1994 Jun;1(2):93-105.
10. Rautianen S, Lindblad BE, Morgenstern R, Wolk A. Vitamin C supplements and the risk of age-related cataract: a population-based prospective cohort study in women. Am J Clin Nutr. 2010;91(2):487-93.
11. Zheng Selin J, Rautianen S, Lindblad BE, Morgenstern R, Wolk A. High-dose multivitamins, and the risk of age-related cataract: a population-based prospective cohort study of men. Am J Epidemiol. 2013;177(6):548-55

<PAGE>37