294. Raina UK, Gupta V, Arora R, Mehta DK. Posterior continuous curvilinear capsulorhexis with and without optic capture of the posterior chamber intraocular lens in the absence of vitrectomy. J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus 2002;39(5):278-87.
295. Cataract Surgery Guidelines, Royal College of Ophthalmologists, 2010, p28
296. Cataract Surgery Guidelines, Royal College of Ophthalmologists, 2010, p29
297. Cataract Surgery Guidelines, Royal College of Ophthalmologists, 2010, p30
298. Kim DH, Kim JH, Kim SJ, Yu YS. Long-term results of bilateral congenital cataract treated with early cataract surgery, aphakic glasses and secondary IOL implantation. Acta Ophthalmol 2012;90(3):231-6.
299. Brown SM, Hodges MR, Corona J. Relaxation of postoperative astigmatism after lens implantationthrough a 6.25 mm scleral wound in children. Cataract Refract Surg 2001;27(12):2012-6.
300. Spierer A, Bar-Sela SM Changes in astigmatism after congenital cataract surgery and intraocular lensimplantation: a comparative study. Arch Ophthalmol 2004;122(5):695-7.
301. Chen TC, Bhatia LS, Halpern EF, Walton DS. Risk factors for the development of aphakic glaucomaafter congenital cataract surgery. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc 2006; 104:241-51.
302. Rabiah PK. Frequency and predictors of glaucoma after pediatric cataract surgery. Am J Ophthalmol 2004;137:30-7.
303. Wong IB, Sukthankar VD, Cortina-Borja M, Nischal KK. Incidence of Early Onset Glaucoma after InfantCataract Extraction With and Without Intraocular Lens Implantation. Br J Ophthalmol 2009 May 14.[Epub ahead of print]
304. Vishwanath M, Cheong-Leen R, Taylor D et al. Is early surgery for congenital cataract a risk factor forglaucoma? Br J Ophthalmol 2004; 88:905-910.
305. Watts P, Abdolell M, Levin AV Complications in infants undergoing surgery for congenital cataract inthe first 12 weeks of life: is early surgery better?J AAPOS

<PAGE>62