158. Garcia-Saenz MC, Arias-Puente A, Fresnadillo-Martinez MJ, Carrasco-Font C. Human aqueous humor levels of oral ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, and moxifloxacin. J Cataract Refract Surg 2001;27:1969-74.
159. Ng JQ, Morlet N, Pearman JW, et al. Management and outcomes of postoperative endophthalmitissince the Endophthalmitis Vitrectomy Study: the Endophthalmitis Population Study of Western Australia (EPSWA)’s fifth report. Ophthalmology 2005;112:1199-206.
160. American Academy of Ophthalmology, Cataract in the Adult Eyes, 2011, p29
161. American Academy of Ophthalmology, Cataract in the Adult Eyes, 2011, p42
162. Cataract Surgery Guidelines, Royal College of Ophthalmologists, 2010, p35
163. Alberta Medical Association, Guideline for Surgical and non-Surgical Management of Cataract in the Otherwise Healthy Adult Eye, 2009, p6
164. American Academy of Ophthalmology, Cataract in the Adult Eyes, 2011, p17
165. Roberts T, Boytell K. A comparison of cataract surgery under topical anaesthesia with and without intracameral lignocaine. Clin Experiment Ophthalmol 2002;30:19-22.
166. Canadian Ophthalmological Society, Canadian Ophthalmological Society Evidence-based Clinical Practice Guidelines for Cataract Surgery in the Adult Eye, 2008, pS15
167. Cataract Surgery Guidelines, Royal College of Ophthalmologists, 2010, p37
168. Cataract Surgery Guidelines, Royal College of Ophthalmologists, 2010, p39
169. Nagy Z, Takacs A, Filkorn T, Sarayba M. Initial clinical evaluation of an intraocular femtosecond laser in cataract surgery. J Refract Surg 2009;25:1053-60.
170. Masket S, Sarayba M, Ignacio T, Fram N. Femtosecond laser-assisted cataract incisions: architectural stability and reproducibility. J Cataract Refract Surg 2010;36:1048-9.
171. Fine IH, Hoffman RS, Packer M. Profile of clear corneal cataract incisions demonstrated by ocular coherence tomography. J Cataract Refract Surg 2007;33:94-7.
172. Alio J, Rodriguez-Prats JL, Galal A, Ramzy M. Outcomes of microincision cataract surgery versus coaxial phacoemulsification. Ophthalmology 2005;112:1997-2003.

<PAGE>50