27. Are investigations anxiolytic or anxiogenic? A randomised controlled trial of neuroimaging to provide reassurance in chronic daily headache. Journal of neurology, neurosurgery, and psychiatry. 2005;76:1558–64.
28. Coeytaux RR, Frasier PY, Reid A. Patient–centered outcomes for frequent headaches. Headache. 2007;47:480–5.
29. Baos V, Ester F, Castellanos A, Nocea G, Caloto MT, Gerth WC. Use of a structured migraine diary improves patient and physician communication about migraine disability and treatment outcomes. International journal of clinical practice. 2005;59:281–6.
30. Jensen R, Tassorelli C, Rossi P, Allena M, Osipova V, Steiner T, Sandrini G, Olesen J, Nappi G. A basic diagnostic headache diary (BDHD) is well accepted and useful in the European and Latin American study. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 2011;31:1549–60.
31. Kim BK, Chu MK, Lee TG, Kim JM, Chung CS, Lee KS. Prevalence and impact of migraine and tension–type headache in Korea. J Clin Neurol. 2012;8:204–11.
32. Stovner L, Hagen K, Jensen R, Katsarava Z, Lipton R, Scher A, Steiner T, Zwart JA. The global burden of headache: a documentation of headache prevalence and disability worldwide. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 2007;27:193–210.
33. Fumal A, Schoenen J. Tension–type headache: current research and clinical management. Lancet Neurol. 2008;7:70–83.
34. Dahlof CG, Jacobs LD. Ketoprofen, paracetamol and placebo in the treatment of episodic tension–type headache. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 1996;16:117–23.
35. Prior MJ, Cooper KM, May LG, Bowen DL. Efficacy and safety of acetaminophen and naproxen in the treatment of tension–type headache. A randomized, double–blind, placebo–controlled trial. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 2002;22:740–8.
36. Steiner TJ, Lange R. Ketoprofen (25 mg) in the symptomatic treatment of episodic tension–type headache: double–blind placebo–controlled comparison with acetaminophen (1000 mg). Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 1998;18:38–43.
37. Steiner TJ, Lange R, Voelker M. Aspirin in episodic tension–type headache: placebo–controlled dose–ranging comparison with paracetamol. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 2003;23:59–66.
38. Pfaffenrath V, Diener HC, Isler H, Meyer C, Scholz E, Taneri Z, Wessely P, Zaiser–Kaschel H, Haase W, Fischer W. Efficacy and tolerability of amitriptylinoxide in the treatment of chronic tension–type headache: a multi–centre controlled study. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 1994;14:149–55.
39. Kim BK, Chu MK, Lee TG, Kim JM, Chung CS, Lee KS. Prevalence and Impact of

두통 진료지침
<PAGE>60