39. Migraine and Tension–Type Headache in Korea. Journal of Clinical Neurology. 2012;8:204–11.
40. Aminoff MJ, Simon RP, Greenberg D. Clinical neurology (7ed.): New York, N.Y: Lange Medical Books/McGraw–Hill; 2009.
41. Olesen J, Steiner TJ. The international classification of headache disorders, 2nd edn (ICDH–II). Journal of neurology, neurosurgery &amp; psychiatry. 2004;75:808–11.
42. Gilmore B, Michael M. Treatment of acute migraine headache. Am Fam Physician. 2011;83:271–80.
43. Derry S, Moore RA. Paracetamol (acetaminophen) with or without an antiemetic for acute migraine headaches in adults. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013;CD008040.
44. Orr SL, Friedman BW, Christie S, Minen MT, Bamford C, Kelley NE, Tepper D. Management of Adults With Acute Migraine in the Emergency Department: The American Headache Society Evidence Assessment of Parenteral Pharmacotherapies. Headache. 2016;56:911–40.
45. Eken C. Critical reappraisal of intravenous metoclopramide in migraine attack: a systematic review and meta–analysis. Am J Emerg Med. 2015;33:331–7.
46. Johnston MM, Rapoport AM. Triptans for the management of migraine. Drugs. 2010;70:1505–18.
47. Bartleson JD, Cutrer FM. Migraine update. Diagnosis and treatment. Minn Med. 2010;93:36–41.
48. Hens M, Villaverde–Hueso A, Alonso V, Abaitua I, Posada de la Paz M. Comparative cost–effectiveness analysis of oral triptan therapy for migraine in four European countries. Eur J Health Econ. 2014;15:433–7.
49. Diamond S, Balm TK, Freitag FG. Ibuprofen plus caffeine in the treatment of tension–type headache. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2000;68:312–9.
50. Kubitzek F, Ziegler G, Gold MS, Liu JM, Ionescu E. Low–dose diclofenac potassium in the treatment of episodic tension–type headache. Eur J Pain. 2003;7:155–62.
51. Mehlisch DR, Weaver M, Fladung B. Ketoprofen, acetaminophen, and placebo in the treatment of tension headache. Headache. 1998;38:579–89.
52. Packman B, Packman E, Doyle G, Cooper S, Ashraf E, Koronkiewicz K, Jayawardena S. Solubilized ibuprofen: evaluation of onset, relief, and safety of a novel formulation in the treatment of episodic tension–type headache. Headache. 2000;40:561–7.
53. Pini LA, Del Bene E, Zanchin G, Sarchielli P, Di Trapani G, Prudenzano MP, LaPegna G, Savi L, Di Loreto G, Dionisio P, Granella F. Tolerability and efficacy of a combination of paracetamol and caffeine in the treatment of tension–type headache: a randomised, double–blind, double–dummy, cross–over study versus placebo and naproxen sodium. J Headache

한국정신신체의학회
<PAGE>61