## 참고문헌
1.  Steiner T, MacGregor E, Davies P. Guidelines for all healthcare professionals in the diagnosis and management of migraine, tension-type, cluster and medication overuse headache. British Association for the Study of Headache. 2007;2007:1–52.
2.  Kernick DP, Ahmed F, Bahra A, Dowson A, Elrington G, Fontebasso M, Giffin NJ, Lipscombe S, MacGregor A, Peatfield R, Weatherby S, Whitmarsh T, Goadsby PJ. Imaging patients with suspected brain tumour: guidance for primary care. The British journal of general practice : the journal of the Royal College of General Practitioners. 2008;58:880–5.
3.  Singer EJ, Kim J, Fahy–Chandon B, Datt A, Tourtellotte WW. Headache in ambulatory HIV–1–infected men enrolled in a longitudinal study. Neurology. 1996;47:487–94.
4.  Singer EJ, Zorilla C, Fahy–Chandon B, Chi S, Syndulko K, Tourtellotte WW. Painful symptoms reported by ambulatory HIV–infected men in a longitudinal study. Pain. 1993;54:15–9.
5.  Gifford AL, Hecht FM. Evaluating HIV–infected patients with headache: who needs computed tomography? Headache. 2001;41:441–8.
6.  Antunes NL, De Angelis LM. Neurologic consultations in children with systemic cancer. Pediatric neurology. 1999;20:121–4.
7.  Phillip D, Lyngberg A, Jensen R. Assessment of headache diagnosis. A comparative population study of a clinical interview with a diagnostic headache diary. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 2007;27:1–8.
8.  Russell MB, Rasmussen BK, Brennum J, Iversen HK, Jensen RA, Olesen J. Presentation of a new instrument: the diagnostic headache diary. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 1992;12:369–74.
9.  Tassorelli C, Sances G, Allena M, Ghiotto N, Bendtsen L, Olesen J, Nappi G, Jensen R. The usefulness and applicability of a basic headache diary before first consultation: results of a pilot study conducted in two centres. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 2008;28:1023–30.
10. Kernick D, Stapley S, Hamilton W. GPs’ classification of headache: is primary headache underdiagnosed? The British journal of general practice : the journal of the Royal College of General Practitioners. 2008;58:102–4.
11. Society IH. IHS Classification (ICHD–2). 2004.
12. McAbee GN, Morse AM, Assadi M. Pediatric aspects of headache classification in the international classification of headache disorders—3 (ICHD–3 beta version). Current pain and headache reports. 2016;20:7.
13. Limmroth V, Katsarava Z, Fritsche G, Przywara S, Diener H–C. Features of

두통 진료지침
<PAGE>58