13. Limmroth V, Katsarava Z, Fritsche G, Przywara S, Diener H–C. Features of medication overuse headache following overuse of different acute headache drugs. Neurology. 2002;59:1011–4.
14. Ridsdale L, Clark LV, Dowson AJ, Goldstein LH, Jenkins L, McCrone P, Morgan M, Seed PT. How do patients referred to neurologists for headache differ from those managed in primary care? The British journal of general practice : the journal of the Royal College of General Practitioners. 2007;57:388–95.
15. Katzman GL, Dagr AP, Patronas NJ. Incidental findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging from 1000 asymptomatic volunteers. Jama. 1999;282:36–9.
16. Morris Z, Whiteley WN, Longstreth WT, Jr., Weber F, Lee YC, Tsushima Y, Alphs H, Ladd SC, Warlow C, Wardlaw JM, Al–Shahi Salman R. Incidental findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging: systematic review and meta–analysis. BMJ (Clinical research ed). 2009;339:b3016.
17. Yue NC, Longstreth WT, Jr., Elster AD, Jungreis CA, O’Leary DH, Poirier VC. Clinically serious abnormalities found incidentally at MR imaging of the brain: data from the Cardiovascular Health Study. Radiology. 1997:202:41–6.
18. Thomas R, Cook A, Main G, Taylor T, Galizia Caruana E, Swingler R. Primary care access to computed tomography for chronic headache. The British journal of general practice : the journal of the Royal College of General Practitioners. 2010;60:426–30.
19. Cull RE. Investigation of Late–Onset Migraine. Scot Med J. 1995;40:50–2.
20. Demaerel P, Boelaert I, Wilms G, Baert AL. The role of cranial computed tomography in the diagnostic work–up of headache. Headache. 1996;36:347–8.
21. Grimaldi D, Nonino F, Cevoli S, Vandelli A, D’Amico R, Cortelli P. Risk stratification of non–traumatic headache in the emergency department. J Neurol. 2009;256:51–7.
22. Jordan JE, Ramirez GF, Bradley WG, Chen DY, Lightfoote JB, Song A. Economic and outcomes assessment of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of headache. J Natl Med Assoc. 2000;92:573–8.
23. Sempere AP, Porta–Etessam J, Medrano V, Garcia–Morales I, Concepcion L, Ramos A, Florencio I, Bermejo F, Botella C. Neuroimaging in the evaluation of patients with non–acute headache. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 2005;25:30–5.
24. Tsushima Y, Endo K. MR imaging in the evaluation of chronic or recurrent headache. Radiology. 2005;235:575–9.
25. Wang HZ, Simonson TM, Greco WR, Yuh WTC. Brain MR imaging in the evaluation of chronic headache in patients without other neurologic symptoms. Acad Radiol. 2001;8:405–8.
26. Indicators Q. Health at a Glance: OECD Publishing, Paris; 2017.
27. Howard L, Wessely S, Leese M, Page L, McCrone P, Husain K, Tong J, Dowson A.

한국정신신체의학회
<PAGE>59