## Executive Summary

In this study, we aimed to develop the clinical guideline for headache by the systematic review and synthesis of existing evidence-based guidelines. The purpose of developing the “Evidence-based clinical guideline for diagnosis and management of headache in Korea” was to improve the appropriateness of diagnosis and treatment of headache disorder, and consequently, to improve patients’ pain control and quality of life. The guideline broadly covers the differential diagnosis and treatment of tension-type headache, migraine, cluster headache, and medication-overuse headache. Target users of this guideline are general practitioners and related specialists (psychiatrists, neurologists, neurosurgeons, family medicine doctors, etc.). This research was supported by a grant of the Korea Health Technology R&D Project through the Korea Health Industry Development Institute (KHIDI), funded by the Ministry of Health & Welfare, Republic of Korea (grant number: HC17C0117), and the Korean Psychosomatic Society participated in the development.

This guideline was developed through adaptation, using the “ADAPTE” methodology, the toolkit for clinical guideline adaptation. First, a total of 13 key questions related to evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment of headache were selected. Through systematic review of the literature, clinical guidelines for at least one headache disorder among tension-type headache, migraine, cluster headache, and medication overuse headache were searched. The inclusion criteria were as follows: up-to-date guidelines (including evidence from within 5 years; published or renewed after November, 2012), evidence-based guideline, guidelines written in English or Korean, and guidelines issued by academic institutions or government agencies. In addition, for the sake of uniformity, only guidelines that specify accurate diagnostic criteria were selected, and the latest version among serial guidelines was selected. We selected five guidelines and conducted the quality assessment of those guidelines using the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation II (AGREE II) Instrument. In addition, we evaluated the guidelines for various aspects, such as up-to-date status, content, and acceptability/applicability.

As a result, one guideline was selected to be eligible for adaptation (“Headaches in over 12s: diagnosis and management, 2012 [2015 edition],” issued by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence [NICE]). For the 13 key questions, a total of 39 recommendations were proposed with the grading system and revised using the nominal group technique. The step-by-step development involved in the adaptation process is detailed in the text and appendix. Recommendations include levels of evidence and strength of recommendations, evidence summaries, recommendation considerations (relative values of different outcomes, clinical benefits and risks, economic considerations, domestic acceptability and applicability, and other considerations), and references. This guideline adapted the Grading of Recommendations,

한국정신신체의학회
<PAGE>5