sumatriptan and dihydroergotamine nasal spray in the acute treatment of migraine. Neurology. 1996;47:361–5.
66. Winner P, Ricalde O, Le Force B, Saper J, Margul B. A double–blind study of subcutaneous dihydroergotamine vs subcutaneous sumatriptan in the treatment of acute migraine. Arch Neurol. 1996;53:180–4.
67. Dowson A, Ball K, Haworth D. Comparison of a fixed combination of domperidone and paracetamol (Domperamol (R)) with sumatriptan 50 mg in moderate to severe migraine: A randomised UK primary care study. Current Medical Research and Opinion. 2000;16:190–7.
68. Brousseau DC, Duffy SJ, Anderson AC, Linakis JG. Treatment of pediatric migraine headaches: a randomized, double–blind trial of prochlorperazine versus ketorolac. Ann Emerg Med. 2004;43:256–62.
69. Bell R, Montoya D, Shuaib A, Lee MA. A comparative trial of three agents in the treatment of acute migraine headache. Ann Emerg Med. 1990;19:1079–82.
70. Friedman BW, Corbo J, Lipton RB, Bijur PE, Essses D, Solorzano C, Gallagher EJ. A trial of metoclopramide vs sumatriptan for the emergency department treatment of migraines. Neurology. 2005;64:463–8.
71. Diener HC. Efficacy and safety of intravenous acetylsalicylic acid lysinate compared to subcutaneous sumatriptan and parenteral placebo in the acute treatment of migraine. A double–blind, double–dummy, randomized, multicenter, parallel group study. The ASASUMAMIG Study Group. Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache. 1999;19:581–8; discussion 42.
72. Hernandez–Diaz S, Smith CR, Shen A, Mittendorf R, Hauser WA, Yerby M, Holmes LB. Comparative safety of antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy. Neurology. 2012;78:1692–9.
73. Brandes JL, Saper JR, Diamond M, Couch JR, Lewis DW, Schmitt J, Neto W, Schwabe S, Jacobs D, Group M–S. Topiramate for migraine prevention: a randomized controlled trial. Jama. 2004;291:965–73.
74. Diener HC, Tfelt–Hansen P, Dahlof C, Lainez MJ, Sandrini G, Wang SJ, Neto W, Vijapurkar U, Doyle A, Jacobs D, Group M–S. Topiramate in migraine prophylaxis––results from a placebo–controlled trial with propranolol as an active control. J Neurol. 2004;251:943–50.
75. Lewis D, Winner P, Saper J, Ness S, Polverejan E, Wang S, Kurland CL, Nye J, Yuen E, Eerdekens M, Ford L. Randomized, double–blind, placebo–controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of topiramate for migraine prevention in pediatric subjects 12 to 17 years of age. Pediatrics. 2009;123:924–34.
76. Lipton RB, Silberstein S, Dodick D, Cady R, Freitag F, Mathew N, Biondi DM,

---
한국정신신체학회
<PAGE>63