## 2022년 고혈압 진료지침

344. (ESC). Eur Heart J 2010;31:2369-429.
345. Kirchhof P, Lip GY, Van Gelder IC, et al. Comprehensive risk reduction in patients with atrial fibrillation: Emerging diagnostic and therapeutic options. Executive summary of the report from the 3rd AFNET/EHRA consensus conference. Thromb Haemost 2011;106:1012-9.
346. Kirchhof P, Benussi S, Kotecha D, et al. 2016 ESC Guidelines for the management of atrial fibrillation developed in collaboration with EACTS. Eur Heart J 2016;37:2893-962.
347. Ki Hong Lee J-BK, Seung Yong Shin, Boyoung Joung. 2021 Korean Heart Rhythm Society Guidelines for Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation. Korean J Med 2021;96:296-311.
348. Manolis AJ, Rosei EA, Coca A, et al. Hypertension and atrial fibrillation: diagnostic approach, prevention and treatment. Position paper of the Working Group 'Hypertension Arrhythmias and Thrombosis' of the European Society of Hypertension. J Hypertens 2012;30:239-52.
349. Arima H, Anderson C, Omae T, et al. Effects of blood pressure lowering on intracranial and extracranial bleeding in patients on antithrombotic therapy: the PROGRESS trial. Stroke 2012;43:1675-7.
350. Pokorney SD, Piccini JP, Stevens SR, et al. Cause of Death and Predictors of All-Cause Mortality in Anticoagulated Patients With Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation: Data From ROCKET AF. J Am Heart Assoc 2016;5:e002197.
351. Vemulapalli S, Hellkamp AS, Jones WS, et al. Blood pressure control and stroke or bleeding risk in anticoagulated patients with atrial fibrillation: Results from the ROCKET AF Trial. Am Heart J 2016;178:74-84.
352. Nagarakanti R, Wallentin L, Noack H, et al. Comparison of Characteristics and Outcomes of Dabigatran Versus Warfarin in Hypertensive Patients With Atrial Fibrillation (from the RE-LY Trial). Am J Cardiol 2015;116:1204-9.
353. Vidal-Petiot E, Ford I, Greenlaw N, et al. Cardiovascular event rates and mortality according to achieved systolic and diastolic blood pressure in patients with stable coronary artery disease: an international cohort study. Lancet 2016;388:2142-52.
354. Rao MP, Halvorsen S, Wojdyla D, et al. Blood Pressure Control and Risk of Stroke or Systemic Embolism in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation: Results From the Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation (ARISTOTLE) Trial. J Am Heart Assoc 2015;4.
355. Zanchetti A, Bond MG, Hennig M, et al. Calcium antagonist lacidipine slows down progression of asymptomatic carotid atherosclerosis: principal results of the European Lacidipine Study on Atherosclerosis (ELSA), a randomized, double-blind, long-term trial. Circulation 2002;106:2422-7.
356. Zanchetti A, Crepaldi G, Bond MG, et al. Different effects of antihypertensive regimens based on fosinopril or hydrochlorothiazide with or without lipid lowering by pravastatin on progression of asymptomatic carotid atherosclerosis: principal results of PHYLLIS--a randomized double-blind trial. Stroke 2004;35:2807-12.
357. Yen CH, Lai YH, Hung CL, et al. Angiotensin Receptor Blockades Effect on Peripheral Muscular and Central Aortic Arterial Stiffness: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials and Systematic Review. Acta Cardiol Sin 2014;30:98-107.
358. Chen X, Huang B, Liu M, Li X. Effects of different types of antihypertensive agents on arterial stiffness: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. J Thorac Dis 2015;7:2339-47.
359. Boutouyrie P, Achouba A, Trunet P, Laurent S, Group ET. Amlodipine-valsartan combination decreases central systolic blood pressure more effectively than the amlodipine-atenolol combination: the EXPLOR study. Hypertension 2010;55:1314-22.
360. Ong KT, Delerme S, Pannier B, et al. Aortic stiffness is reduced beyond blood pressure lowering by short-term and long-term antihypertensive treatment: a meta-analysis of individual data in 294 patients. J Hypertens 2011;29:1034-42.
361. Shahin Y, Khan JA, Chetter I. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors effect on arterial stiffness and wave reflections: a meta-analysis and meta-regression of randomised controlled trials. Atherosclerosis 2012;221:18-33.
362. Karalliedde J, Smith A, DeAngelis L, et al. Valsartan improves arterial stiffness in type 2 diabetes independently of blood pressure lowering. Hypertension 2008;51:1617-23.
363. Kampus P, Serg M, Kals J, et al. Differential effects of nebivolol and metoprolol on central aortic pressure and left ventricular wall thickness. Hypertension 2011;57:1122-8.
364. Guerin AP, Blacher B, Pannier B, Marchais SJ, Safar ME, London GM. Impact of aortic stiffness attenuation on survival of patients in end-stage renal failure. Circulation 2001;103:987-92.
365. Murabito JM, Evans JC, D'Agostino RB, Sr., Wilson PW, Kannel WB. Temporal trends in the incidence of intermittent claudication from 1950 to 1999. Am J Epidemiol 2005;162:430-7.
366. Aboyans V, Ricco JB, Bartelink MEL, et al. 2017 ESC Guidelines on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Peripheral Arterial Diseases, in collaboration with the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS): Document covering atherosclerotic disease of extracranial carotid and vertebral, mesenteric, renal, upper and lower extremity arteriesEndorsed by: the European Stroke Organization (ESO)The Task Force for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Peripheral Arterial Diseases of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) and of the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS). Eur Heart J 2018;39:763-816.
367. Bavry AA, Anderson RD, Gong Y, et al. Outcomes Among hypertensive patients with concomitant peripheral and coronary artery disease: findings from the INternational VErapamil-SR/Trandolapril Study. Hypertension 2010;55:48-53.
368. Ostergren J, Sleight P, Dagenais G, et al. Impact of ramipril in patients with evidence of clinical or subclinical peripheral arterial disease. Eur Heart J 2004;25:17-24.
369. De Buyzere ML, Clement DL. Management of hypertension in peripheral arterial disease. Prog Cardiovasc Dis 2008;50:238-63.
370. Piller LB, Simpson LM, Baraniuk S, et al. Characteristics and long-term follow-up of participants with peripheral arterial disease during ALLHAT. J Gen Intern Med 2014;29:1475-83.
371. Thompson AM, Hu T, Eshelbrenner CL, Reynolds K, He J, Bazzano LA. Antihypertensive treatment and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease events among persons without hypertension: a meta-analysis. JAMA 2011;305:913-22.
372. Paravastu SC, Mendonca DA, da Silva A. Beta blockers for peripheral arterial disease. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;38:66-70.
373. Radack K, Deck C. Beta-adrenergic blocker therapy does not worsen intermittent claudication in subjects with peripheral arterial disease. A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Arch Intern Med 1991;151:1769-76.
374. Singer DR, Kite A. Management of hypertension in peripheral arterial disease: does the choice of drugs matter? Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2008;35:701-8.
375. Nakamura K, Stefanescu Schmidt A. Treatment of Hypertension in Coarctation of the Aorta. Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med 2016;18:40.
376. Gaddum NR, Keehn L, Guilcher A, et al. Altered dependence of aortic pulse wave velocity on transmural pressure in hypertension revealing structural change in the aortic wall. Hypertension 2015;65:362-9.
377. Shores J, Berger KR, Murphy EA, Pyeritz RE. Progression of aortic dilatation and the benefit of long-term beta-adrenergic blockade in Marfan’s syndrome. N Engl J Med 1994;330:1335-41.
378. Elefteriades JA, Farkas EA. Thoracic aortic aneurysm clinically pertinent controversies and uncertainties. J Am Coll Cardiol 2010;55:841-57.
379. Genoni M, Paul M, Jenni R, Graves K, Seifert B, Turina M. Chronic beta-

이해상충, 신구 대비표, 참고문헌 | <PAGE>105