성매개감염 진료지침 2023

## 성기 단순포진 (Genital Herpes)

### 12. 일반인을 대상으로 한 type-specific HSV 혈청검사 스크리닝은 필요한가?

#### References
1. Workowski KA, Bachmann LH, Chan PA, et al. Sexually transmitted infections treatment guidelines, 2021. Screening recommendations and considerations referenced in treatment guidelines and original sources. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2021;70(No. RR-4):1-187.
2. US Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Curry SJ, et al. Serologic Screening for Genital Herpes Infection: US Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement. JAMA. 2016;316:2525–30.
3. Hook EW 3rd. A Recommendation Against Serologic Screening for Genital Herpes Infection-What Now? JAMA. 2016;316:2493-4.
4. Feltner C, Grodensky C, Ebel C, et al. Serologic Screening for Genital Herpes: An Updated Evidence Report and Systematic Review for the US Preventive Services Task Force. JAMA. 2016;316:2531-43.
5. Munday PE, Vuddamalay J, Slomka MJ, et al. Role of type specific herpes simplex virus serology in the diagnosis and management of genital herpes. Sex Transm Infect 1998; 74: 175-178.
6. Ashley RL and Wald A. Genital herpes: review of the epidemic and potential use of type-specific serology. Clin Microbiol Rev 1999; 12: 1-8.
7. Malkin JE. Herpes simplex virus: who should be tested? Herpes 2002; 9: 31.
8. Copas AJ, Cowan FM, Cunningham AL, et al. An evidence based approach to testing for antibody to herpes simplex virus type 2. Sex Transm Infect 2002; 78: 430-434.
9. Corey L, Wald A, Patel R, et al. Once-daily valacyclovir to reduce the risk of transmission of genital herpes. N Engl J Med 2004; 350: 11-20.
10. Ramaswamy M, McDonald C, Sabin C, et al. The epidemiology of genital infection with herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2 in genitourinary medicine attendees in inner London. Sex Transm Infect 2005; 81: 306-308.
11. Brown ZA, Selke S, Zeh J, et al. The acquisition of herpes simplex virus during pregnancy. N Engl J Med 1997; 337: 509-515.
12. Rouse DJ and Stringer JS. An appraisal of screening for maternal type-specific herpes simplex virus antibodies to prevent neonatal herpes. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2000; 183: 400-406.
13. Tita AT, Grobman WA and Rouse DJ. Antenatal herpes serologic screening: an appraisal of the evidence. Obstet Gynecol 2006; 108: 1247-1253.

- 일반 인구집단에서 HSV-1 및/또는 HSV-2에 대한 혈청학적 스크리닝은 권장되지 않는다. HSV 유병률이 낮은 집단에서 유형별 혈청학적 검사의 낮은 양성 예측값에 대한 우려가 제기되었으며 일상적인 HSV 혈청학적 스크리닝의 이점을 뒷받침하는 데이터가 불
<PAGE>128