# 단원 VII 환자 교육 및 천식행동지침

## 참고문헌

1.  Gibson PG, Powell H, Coughlan J, et al. Self-management education and regular practitioner review for adults with asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2003:CD001117.
2.  Guevara JP, Wolf FM, Grum CM, Clark NM. Effects of educational interventions for self management of asthma in children and adolescents: systematic review and meta-analysis. Bmj 2003;326:1308-1309.
3.  Cote J, Cartier A, Robichaud P, et al. Influence on asthma morbidity of asthma education programs based on self-management plans following treatment optimization. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1997;155:1509-1514.
4.  Stewart MA. Effective physician-patient communication and health outcomes: a review. CMAJ : Canadian Medical Association journal = journal de l'Association medicale canadienne 1995;152:1423-1433.
5.  Wilson SR, Strub P, Buist AS, et al. Shared treatment decision making improves adherence and outcomes in poorly controlled asthma. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2010;181:566-577.
6.  Charlton I, Charlton G, Broomfield J, Mullee MA. Evaluation of peak flow and symptoms only self management plans for control of asthma in general practice. Bmj 1990;301:1355-1359.
7.  Osman LM, Calder C, Godden DJ, et al. A randomised trial of self-management planning for adult patients admitted to hospital with acute asthma. Thorax 2002;57:869-874.
8.  Cote J, Bowie DM, Robichaud P, Parent JG, Battisti L, Boulet LP. Evaluation of two different educational interventions for adult patients consulting with an acute asthma exacerbation. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2001;163:1415-1419.
9.  Melani AS, Bonavia M, Cilenti V, et al. Inhaler mishandling remains common in real life and is associated with reduced disease control. Respir Med 2011;105:930-938.
10. Fink JB, Rubin BK. Problems with inhaler use: a call for improved clinician and patient education. Respir Care 2005;50:1360-1374; discussion 74-75.
11. Basheti IA, Reddel HK, Armour CL, Bosnic-Anticevich SZ. Improved asthma outcomes with a simple inhaler technique intervention by community pharmacists. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2007;119:1537-1538.
12. Crompton GK, Barnes PJ, Broeders M, et al. The need to improve inhalation technique in Europe: a report from the Aerosol Drug Management Improvement Team. Respir Med 2006;100:1479-1494.
13. Armour CL, Reddel HK, LeMay KS, et al. Feasibility and effectiveness of an evidence-based asthma service in Australian community pharmacies: a pragmatic cluster randomized trial. J Asthma 2013;50:302-309.
14. Kuethe MC, Vaessen-Verberne AA, Elbers RG, Van Aalderen WM. Nurse versus physician-led care for the management of asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2013;2:CD009296.
15. Boulet LP, Vervloet D, Magar Y, Foster JM. Adherence: the goal to control asthma. Clin Chest Med 2012;33:405-417.
16. Charles T, Quinn D, Weatherall M, Aldington S, Beasley R, Holt S. An audiovisual reminder function improves adherence with inhaled corticosteroid therapy in asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2007;119:811-816.
17. Price D, Robertson A, Bullen K, Rand C, Horne R, Staudinger H. Improved adherence with once-daily versus twice-daily dosing of mometasone furoate administered via a dry powder inhaler: a randomized open-label study. BMC Pulm Med 2010;10:1.
18. Otsuki M, Eakin MN, Rand CS, et al. Adherence feedback to improve asthma outcomes among inner-city children: a randomized trial. Pediatrics 2009;124:1513-1521.
19. Gibson PG, Powell H, Coughlan J, et al. Limited (information only) patient education programs for adults with

<PAGE>170