## 참고문헌

43. Rabe KF, Nair P, Brusselle G, et al. Efficacy and Safety of Dupilumab in Glucocorticoid-Dependent Severe Asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2018;378:2475-2485.
44. Cox G, Thomson NC, Rubin AS, et al. Asthma control during the year after bronchial thermoplasty. The New England journal of medicine 2007;356:1327-1337.
45. Pavord ID, Cox G, Thomson NC, et al. Safety and efficacy of bronchial thermoplasty in symptomatic, severe asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2007;176:1185-1191.
46. Castro M, Rubin AS, Laviolette M, et al. Effectiveness and safety of bronchial thermoplasty in the treatment of severe asthma: a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled clinical trial. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2010;181:116-124.
47. Thomson NC, Rubin AS, Niven RM, et al. Long-term (5 year) safety of bronchial thermoplasty: Asthma Intervention Research (AIR) trial. BMC Pulm Med 2011;11:8.
48. Castro M, Rubin A, Laviolette M, et al. Persistence of effectiveness of bronchial thermoplasty in patients with severe asthma. Annals of allergy, asthma & immunology : official publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology 2011;107:65-70.
49. Wechsler ME, Laviolette M, Rubin AS, et al. Bronchial thermoplasty: Long-term safety and effectiveness in patients with severe persistent asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2013;132:1295-1302.
50. Kang J, Cho YS, Choi DK, et al. Bronchial Thermoplasty in Patients with Severe Uncontrolled Asthma: First Korean Cases. J Korean Med Sci 2019;34:e120.
51. Brusselle GG, Joos G. Is there a role for macrolides in severe asthma? Current opinion in pulmonary medicine 2014;20:95-102.
52. Altenburg J, de Graaff CS, van der Werf TS, Boersma WG. Immunomodulatory effects of macrolide antibiotics - part 1: biological mechanisms. Respiration; international review of thoracic diseases 2011;81:67-74.
53. Kew KM, Undela K, Kotortsi I, Ferrara G. Macrolides for chronic asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2015;CD002997.
54. Simpson JL, Powell H, Boyle MJ, Scott RJ, Gibson PG. Clarithromycin targets neutrophilic airway inflammation in refractory asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2008;177:148-155.
55. Brusselle GG, Vanderstichele C, Jordens P, et al. Azithromycin for prevention of exacerbations in severe asthma (AZISAST): a multicentre randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Thorax 2013;68:322-329.
56. Gibson PG, Yang IA, Upham JW, et al. Effect of azithromycin on asthma exacerbations and quality of life in adults with persistent uncontrolled asthma (AMAZES): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2017;390:659-668.
57. Cameron EJ, Chaudhuri R, Mair F, et al. Randomised controlled trial of azithromycin in smokers with asthma. The European respiratory journal 2013;42:1412-1415.
58. Albert RK, Connett J, Bailey WC, et al. Azithromycin for prevention of exacerbations of COPD. The New England journal of medicine 2011;365:689-698.
59. Clay KD, Hanson JS, Pope SD, Rissmiller RW, Purdum PP, 3rd, Banks PM. Brief communication: severe hepatotoxicity of telithromycin: three case reports and literature review. Annals of internal medicine 2006;144:415-420.
60. Shaffer D, Singer S, Korvick J, Honig P. Concomitant risk factors in reports of torsades de pointes associated with macrolide use: review of the United States Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System. Clin Infect Dis 2002;35:197-200.
61. Virchow JC, Jr., Prasse A, Naya I, Summerton L, Harris A. Zafirlukast improves asthma control in patients receiving high-dose inhaled corticosteroids. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2000;162:578-585.
62. Tamaoki J, Kondo M, Sakai N, et al. Leukotriene antagonist prevents exacerbation of asthma during reduction of high-dose inhaled corticosteroid. The Tokyo Joshi-Idai Asthma Research Group. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1997;155:1235-1240.

<PAGE>153