참고문헌
49. Li D, German D, Lulla S, Thomas RG, Wilson SR. Prospective study of hospitalization for asthma. A preliminary risk factor model. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine. 1995;151(3 Pt 1):647-655.
50. Ulrik CS. Outcome of asthma: longitudinal changes in lung function. Eur Respir J. 1999;13(4):904-918.
51. Reddel HK, Jenkins CR, Marks GB, et al. Optimal asthma control, starting with high doses of inhaled budesonide. Eur Respir J. 2000;16(2):226-235.
52. Santanello NC, Davies G, Galant SP, et al. Validation of an asthma symptom diary for interventional studies. Archives of disease in childhood. 1999;80(5):414-420.
53. Szefler SJ, Martin RJ, King TS, et al. Significant variability in response to inhaled corticosteroids for persistent asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology. 2002;109(3):410-418.
54. Reddel HK TD, Bateman ED, Boulet LP, Boushey HA, Busse WW, Casale TB, Chanez P, Enright PL, Gibson PG, de Jongste JC, Kerstjens HA, Lazarus SC, Levy ML, O’Byrne PM, Partridge MR, Pavord ID, Sears MR, Sterk PJ, Stoloff SW, Sullivan SD, Szefler SJ, Thomas MD, Wenzel SE; American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society Task Force on Asthma Control and Exacerbations. An official American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society statement: asthma control and exacerbations: standardizing endpoints for clinical asthma trials and clinical practice. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine. 2009;180(1):59-99.
55. Taylor DR BE, Boulet LP, Boushey HA, Busse WW, Casale TB, Chanez P, Enright PL, Gibson PG, de Jongste JC, Kerstjens HA, Lazarus SC, Levy ML, O’Byrne PM, Partridge MR, Pavord ID, Sears MR, Sterk PJ, Stoloff SW, Szefler SJ, Sullivan SD, Thomas MD, Wenzel SE, Reddel HK. A new perspective on concepts of asthma severity and control. Eur Respir J. 2008;32(3):545-554.
56. Chung KF WS, Brozek JL, Bush A, Castro M, Sterk PJ, Adcock IM, Bateman ED, Bel EH, Bleecker ER, Boulet LP, Brightling C, Chanez P, Dahlen SE, Djukanovic R, Frey U, Gaga M, Gibson P, Hamid Q, Jajour NN, Mauad T, Sorkness RL, Teague WG. International ERS/ATS guidelines on definition, evaluation and treatment of severe asthma. Eur Respir J. 2014;43(2):343-373.
57. Feldman C. Bronchiectasis: new approaches to diagnosis and management. Clinics in chest medicine. 2011;32(3):535-546.
58. Gibson P, Simpson J. The overlap syndrome of asthma and COPD: what are its features and how important is it? Thorax. 2009;64(8):728-735.
59. Soler-Cataluña JJ, Cosio B, Izquierdo JL, et al. Consensus document on the overlap phenotype COPD-asthma in COPD. Archivos de bronconeumologia. 2012;48(9):331-337.
60. Bleecker ER. Similarities and differences in asthma and COPD. The Dutch hypothesis. Chest. 2004;126(2 Suppl):93S-95S; discussion 159S-161S.
61. Louie S, Zeki AA, Schivo M, et al. The asthma-chronic obstructive pulmonary disease overlap syndrome: pharmacotherapeutic considerations. Expert review of clinical pharmacology. 2013;6(2):197-219.
62. Cosio BG, Soriano JB, Lopez-Campos JL, et al. Defining the Asthma-COPD Overlap Syndrome in a COPD Cohort. Chest. 2016;149(1):45-52.
63. Plaza V, Alvarez F, Calle M, et al. Consensus on the Asthma-COPD Overlap Syndrome (ACOS) Between the Spanish COPD Guidelines (GesEPOC) and the Spanish Guidelines on the Management of Asthma (GEMA). Archivos de bronconeumologia. 2017;53(8):443-449.
64. Jo YS, Hwang YI, Yoo KH, et al. Comparing the different diagnostic criteria of Asthma-COPD overlap. Allergy. 2019;74(1):186-189.
65. Kauppi P, Kupiainen H Fau - Lindqvist A, Lindqvist A Fau - Tammilehto L, et al. Overlap syndrome of asthma and COPD predicts low quality of life. (1532-4303 (Electronic)).
66. Hardin M, Silverman Ek Fau - Barr RG, Barr Rg Fau - Hansel NN, et al. The clinical features of the overlap between COPD and asthma. (1465-993X (Electronic)).

<PAGE>65