## 참고문헌

138. Haatela T, Jarvinen M, Kava T, et al. Comparison of a b2-agonist, terbutaline, with an inhaled corticosteroid, budesonide, in newly detected asthma N Eng J Med 1991;325:388-392.
139. Pauwels RA, Pedersen S, Busse WW, et al. Early intervention with budesonide in mild persistent asthma: a randomised, double-blind trial. Lancet 2003;361:1071-1076.
140. Adams NP, Bestall JB, Malouf R, Lasserson TJ, Jones PW. Inhaled bechlomethasone versus placebo for chronic asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2005;Cd002738.
141. Dahl R, Larsen BB, Venge P. Effect of long-term treatment with inhaled budesonide or theophylline on lung function, airway reactivity and asthma symptoms. Respiratory medicine 2002;96:432-438.
142. Clinical trial of low-dose theophylline and montelukast in patients with poorly controlled asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2007;175:235-242.
143. Tsiu SJ, Self TH, Burns R. Theophylline toxicity: update. Annals of allergy 1990;64:241-257.
144. Guevara JP, Ducharme FM, Keren R, Nihtianova S, Zorc J. Inhaled corticosteroids versus sodium cromoglycate in children and adults with asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2006;Cd003558.
145. Sridhar AV, McKean M. Nedocromil sodium for chronic asthma in children. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2006;Cd004108.
146. Ducharme FM, Ni Chroinin M, Greenstone I, Lasserson TJ. Addition of long-acting beta2-agonists to inhaled corticosteroids versus same dose inhaled corticosteroids for chronic asthma in adults and children. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2010;Cd005535.
147. Papi A, Corradi M, Pigeon-Francisco C, et al. Beclometasone-formoterol as maintenance and reliever treatment in patients with asthma: a double-blind, randomised controlled trial. The Lancet Respiratory medicine 2013;1:23-31.
148. Patel M, Pilcher J, Pritchard A, et al. Efficacy and safety of maintenance and reliever combination budesonide-formoterol inhaler in patients with asthma at risk of severe exacerbations: a randomised controlled trial. The Lancet Respiratory medicine 2013;1:32-42.
149. Bateman ED, Harrison TW, Quirce S, et al. Overall asthma control achieved with budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy for patients on different treatment steps. Respiratory research 2011;12:38.
150. Kew KM, Karner C, Mindus SM, Ferrara G. Combination formoterol and budesonide as maintenance and reliever therapy versus combination inhaler maintenance for chronic asthma in adults and children. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2013;12:CD009019.
151. Ducharme FM, Ni Chroinin M, Greenstone I, Lasserson TJ. Addition of long-acting beta2-agonists to inhaled steroids versus higher dose inhaled steroids in adults and children with persistent asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2010;Cd005533.
152. Ducharme FM, Lasserson TJ, Cates CJ. Addition to inhaled corticosteroids of long-acting beta2-agonists versus anti-leukotrienes for chronic asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2011;Cd003137.
153. Evans DJ, Taylor DA, Zetterstrom O, Chung KF, O’Connor BJ, Barnes PJ. A comparison of low-dose inhaled budesonide plus theophylline and high-dose inhaled budesonide for moderate asthma. The New England journal of medicine 1997;337:1412-1418.
154. O’Byrne PM, Naya IP, Kallen A, Postma DS, Barnes PJ. Increasing doses of inhaled corticosteroids compared to adding long-acting inhaled beta2-agonists in achieving asthma control. Chest 2008;134:1192-1199.
155. Kew KM, Dahri K. Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to combination long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) versus LABA/ICS for adults with asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2016;CD011721.
156. Virchow JC, Jr., Prasse A, Naya I, Summerton L, Harris A. Zafirlukast improves asthma control in patients receiving high-dose inhaled corticosteroids. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2000;162:578-585.
<PAGE>111