### (12) 항생제
호흡기감염을 강력히 시사하는 증거(예를 들면, 발열, 화농성 객담, 폐렴의 영상소견 등)가 없다면 천식악화에서 항생제 투여를 고려하지 않는다⁴⁴. 항생제 치료를 고려하기 전에 적극적인 스테로이드 치료가 시행되어야 한다.

## 참 고 문 헌

1. Reddel HK, Taylor DR, Bateman ED, et al. An official American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society statement: asthma control and exacerbations: standardizing endpoints for clinical asthma trials and clinical practice. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2009;180:59-99.
2. Chan-Yeung M, Chang JH, Manfreda J, Ferguson A, Becker A. Changes in peak flow, symptom score, and the use of medications during acute exacerbations of asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1996;154:889-893.
3. Pinnock H, Parke HL, Panagioti M, et al. Systematic meta-review of supported self-management for asthma: a healthcare perspective. BMC medicine 2017;15:64.
4. Gibson P, Powell H. Written action plans for asthma: an evidence-based review of the key components. Thorax 2004;59:94-99.
5. O’Byrne PM, FitzGerald JM, Bateman ED, et al. Inhaled combined budesonide–formoterol as needed in mild asthma. New England Journal of Medicine 2018;378:1865-1876.
6. Bateman ED, Reddel HK, O’Byrne PM, et al. As-needed budesonide–formoterol versus maintenance budesonide in mild asthma. New England Journal of Medicine 2018;378:1877-1887.
7. Sobieraj DM, Weeda ER, Nguyen E, et al. Association of inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β-agonists as controller and quick relief therapy with exacerbations and symptom control in persistent asthma: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Jama 2018;319:1485-1496.
8. Bateman ED, Reddel HK, Eriksson G, et al. Overall asthma control: the relationship between current control and future risk. Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2010;125:600-608. e6.
9. Bousquet J, Boulet L-P, Peters MJ, et al. Budesonide/formoterol for maintenance and relief in uncontrolled asthma vs. high-dose salmeterol/fluticasone. Respiratory medicine 2007;101:2437-2446.
10. Buhl R, Kuna P, Peters MJ, et al. The effect of budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy on the risk of severe asthma exacerbations following episodes of high reliever use: an exploratory analysis of two randomised, controlled studies with comparisons to standard therapy. Respiratory research 2012;13:59.
11. Reddel H, Barnes D. Pharmacological strategies for self-management of asthma exacerbations. European Respiratory Journal 2006;28:182-199.
12. Quon BS, FitzGerald JM, Lemière C, Shahidi N, Ducharme FM. Increased versus stable doses of inhaled corticosteroids for exacerbations of chronic asthma in adults and children. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2010.
13. FitzGerald J, Becker A, Sears M, Mink S, Chung K, Lee J. Doubling the dose of budesonide versus maintenance treatment in asthma exacerbations. Thorax 2004;59:550-556.
14. Harrison T, Oborne J, Newton S, Tattersfield A. Doubling the dose of inhaled corticosteroid to prevent asthma exacerbations: randomised controlled trial. The Lancet 2004;363:271-275.
15. Oborne J, Mortimer K, Hubbard RB, Tattersfield AE, Harrison TW. Quadrupling the dose of inhaled corticosteroid to prevent asthma exacerbations: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group clinical trial.
<PAGE>129