참고문헌

37. Cates CJ, Welsh EJ, Rowe BH. Holding chambers (spacers) versus nebulisers for beta–agonist treatment of acute asthma. Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2013.
38. Bradding P, Rushby I, Scullion J, Morgan MI. As–required versus regular nebulized salbutamol for the treatment of acute severe asthma. European Respiratory Journal 1999;13:290-294.
39. Rodrigo GJ, Rodrigo C. Continuous vs intermittent β–agonists in the treatment of acute adult asthma: a systematic review with meta-analysis. Chest 2002;122:160-165.
40. Selroos O. Dry-powder inhalers in acute asthma. Therapeutic delivery 2014;5:69-81.
41. Newman KB, Milne S, Hamilton C, Hall K. A comparison of albuterol administered by metered-dose inhaler and spacer with albuterol by nebulizer in adults presenting to an urban emergency department with acute asthma. Chest 2002;121:1036-1041.
42. Hasegawa T, Ishihara K, Takakura S, et al. Duration of systemic corticosteroids in the treatment of asthma exacerbation; a randomized study. Internal medicine 2000;39:794-797.
43. Jones A, Munavvar M, Vail A, et al. Prospective, placebo-controlled trial of 5 vs 10 days of oral prednisolone in acute adult asthma. Respiratory medicine 2002;96:950-954.
44. Normansell R, Sayer B, Waterson S, Dennett EJ, Del Forno M, Dunleavy A. Antibiotics for exacerbations of asthma. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2018.
45. Cates C, FitzGerald JM. Asthma. Clinical evidence 2002:1506-1529.
46. Chien JW, Ciufo R, Novak R, et al. Uncontrolled oxygen administration and respiratory failure in acute asthma. Chest 2000;117:728-733.
47. Rodrigo GJ, Verde MR, Peregalli V, Rodrigo C. Effects of short-term 28% and 100% oxygen on PaCO2 and peak expiratory flow rate in acute asthma: a randomized trial. Chest 2003;124:1312-1317.
48. Rudnitsky GS, Eberlein RS, Schoffstall JM, Mazur JE, Spivey WH. Comparison of intermittent and continuously nebulized albuterol for treatment of asthma in an urban emergency department. Annals of emergency medicine 1993;22:1842-1846.
49. Reisner C, Kotch A, Dworkin G. Continuous versus frequent intermittent nebulization of albuterol in acute asthma: a randomized, prospective study. Annals of allergy, asthma & immunology: official publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology 1995;75:41-47.
50. Rodrigo GJ, Neffen H, Colodenco FD, Castro-Rodriguez JA. Formoterol for acute asthma in the emergency department: a systematic review with meta-analysis. Annals of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology 2010;104:247-252.
51. Camargo Jr C, Spooner C, Rowe B. Continuous versus intermittent b-agonists in the treatment of acute asthma (Cochrane Review). The Cochrane Library 2003.
52. Travers AA, Jones AP, Kelly KD, Carlos Jr A, Barker SJ, Rowe BH. Intravenous beta2–agonists for acute asthma in the emergency department. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2001.
53. Rodrigo G, Rodrigo C, Burschtin O. A meta-analysis of the effects of ipratropium bromide in adults with acute asthma. The American journal of medicine 1999;107:363-370.
54. Lanes SF, Garrett JE, Wentworth III CE, Fitzgerald JM, Karpel JP. The effect of adding ipratropium bromide to salbutamol in the treatment of acute asthma: a pooled analysis of three trials. Chest 1998;114:365-372.
55. Rodrigo GJ, Rodrigo C. First-line therapy for adult patients with acute asthma receiving a multiple-dose protocol of ipratropium bromide plus albuterol in the emergency department. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2000;161:1862-1868.
56. Nair P, Milan SJ, Rowe BH. Addition of intravenous aminophylline to inhaled beta 2–agonists in adults with acute asthma. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2012.
57. Ream RS, Loftis LL, Albers GM, Becker BA, Lynch RE, Mink RB. Efficacy of IV the ophylline in children with severe status asthmaticus. Chest 2001;119:1480-1488.

<PAGE>131