## 단원 IV
## 천식의 치료 및 예방

157. Lofdahl CG, Reiss TF, Leff JA, et al. Randomised, placebo controlled trial of effect of a leukotriene receptor antagonist, montelukast, on tapering inhaled corticosteroids in asthmatic patients. BMJ (Clinical research ed) 1999;319:87-90.
158. Price DB, Hernandez D, Magyar P, et al. Randomised controlled trial of montelukast plus inhaled budesonide versus double dose inhaled budesonide in adult patients with asthma. Thorax 2003;58:211-216.
159. Vaquerizo MJ, Casan P, Castillo J, et al. Effect of montelukast added to inhaled budesonide on control of mild to moderate asthma. Thorax 2003;58:204-210.
160. Tamaoki J, Kondo M, Sakai N, et al. Leukotriene antagonist prevents exacerbation of asthma during reduction of high-dose inhaled corticosteroid. The Tokyo Joshi-Idai Asthma Research Group. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1997;155:1235-1240.
161. Bateman ED, Boushey HA, Bousquet J, et al. Can guideline-defined asthma control be achieved? The Gaining Optimal Asthma Control study. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2004;170:836-844.
162. Broersen LH, Pereira AM, Jørgensen JO, Dekkers OM. Adrenal Insufficiency in Corticosteroids Use: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2015 Jun;100(6):2171-2180.
163. Rodrigo GJ, Neffen H, Castro-Rodriguez JA. Efficacy and safety of subcutaneous omalizumab vs placebo as add-on therapy to corticosteroids for children and adults with asthma: a systematic review. Chest 2011;139:28-35.
164. Pavord ID, Korn S, Howarth P, et al. Mepolizumab for severe eosinophilic asthma (DREAM): a multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2012;380:651-659.
165. Castro M, Zangrilli J, Wechsler ME, et al. Reslizumab for inadequately controlled asthma with elevated blood eosinophil counts: results from two multicentre, parallel, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trials. The Lancet Respiratory medicine 2015;3:355-366.
166. Nair P, Wenzel S, Rabe KF, et al. Oral Glucocorticoid-Sparing Effect of Benralizumab in Severe Asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2017;376:2448-2458.
167. Petsky HL, Cates CJ, Lasserson TJ, et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis: tailoring asthma treatment on eosinophilic markers (exhaled nitric oxide or sputum eosinophils). Thorax 2012;67:199-208.
168. Chupp G, Laviolette M, Cohn L, et al. Long-term outcomes of bronchial thermoplasty in subjects with severe asthma: a comparison of 3-year follow-up results from two prospective multicentre studies. The European respiratory journal 2017;50.
169. Bateman ED, Bousquet J, Keech ML, Busse WW, Clark TJ, Pedersen SE. The correlation between asthma control and health status: the GOAL study. The European respiratory journal 2007;29:56-62.
170. Sont JK. How do we monitor asthma control? Allergy 1999;54 Suppl 49:68-73.
171. Mintz M, Gilsenan AW, Bui CL, et al. Assessment of asthma control in primary care. Curr Med Res Opin 2009;25:2523-2531.
172. Schatz M, Rachelefsky G, Krishnan JA. Follow-up after acute asthma episodes: what improves future outcomes? Proc Am Thorac Soc 2009;6:386-393.
173. Boulet LP. Perception of the role and potential side effects of inhaled corticosteroids among asthmatic patients. Chest 1998;113:587-592.
174. Leuppi JD, Salome CM, Jenkins CR, et al. Predictive markers of asthma exacerbation during stepwise dose reduction of inhaled corticosteroids. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2001;163:406-412.
175. Usmani OS, Kemppinen A, Gardener E, et al. A Randomized Pragmatic Trial of Changing to and Stepping Down Fluticasone/Formoterol in Asthma. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract 2017;5:1378-1387.e5.
176. Rogers L, Sugar EA, Blake K, et al. Step-Down Therapy for Asthma Well Controlled on Inhaled Corticosteroid and Long-Acting Beta-Agonist: A Randomized Clinical Trial. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract 2018;6:633-643.e1.

<PAGE>112