## 천식악화에 대한 평가 및 치료

16. McKeever T, Mortimer K, Wilson A, et al. Quadrupling inhaled glucocorticoid dose to abort asthma exacerbations. New England Journal of Medicine 2018;378:902-910.
17. Richards RN. Side effects of short-term oral corticosteroids. Journal of cutaneous medicine and surgery 2008;12:77-81.
18. Shim CS, Williams Jr MH. Evaluation of the severity of asthma: patients versus physicians. The American journal of medicine 1980;68:11-13.
19. Atta J, Nunes MdPT, Fonseca-Guedes CHF, et al. Patient and physician evaluation of the severity of acute asthma exacerbations. Brazilian journal of medical and biological research 2004;37:1321-1330.
20. Nowak RM, Tomlanovich MC, Sarkar DD, Kvale PA, Anderson JA. Arterial blood gases and pulmonary function testing in acute bronchial asthma: predicting patient outcomes. Jama 1983;249:2043-2046.
21. Findley LJ, Sahn SA. The value of chest roentgenograms in acute asthma in adults. Chest 1981;80:535-536.
22. Wilson MM, Irwin RS, Connolly AE, Linden C, Manno MM. A prospective evaluation of the 1-hour decision point for admission versus discharge in acute asthma. Journal of intensive care medicine 2003;18:275-285.
23. Kelly A-M, Kerr D, Powell C. Is severity assessment after one hour of treatment better for predicting the need for admission in acute asthma? Respiratory medicine 2004;98:777-781.
24. Grunfeld AF, FitzGerald JM. Discharge considerations for adult asthmatic patients treated in emergency departments. Canadian Respiratory Journal 1996;3:322-327.
25. Pollack Jr CV, Pollack ES, Baren JM, et al. A prospective multicenter study of patient factors associated with hospital admission from the emergency department among children with acute asthma. Archives of pediatrics & adolescent medicine 2002;156:934-940.
26. Weber EJ, Silverman RA, Callaham ML, et al. A prospective multicenter study of factors associated with hospital admission among adults with acute asthma. The American journal of medicine 2002;113:371-378.
27. Rowe BH, Villa-Roel C, Abu-Laban RB, et al. Admissions to Canadian hospitals for acute asthma: a prospective, multicentre study. Canadian respiratory journal 2010;17:25-30.
28. Gibson PG, Powell H, Wilson A, et al. Self-management education and regular practitioner review for adults with asthma. Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2002.
29. Busse WW, Geha RS. Current therapy in allergy, immunology, and rheumatology: Elsevier Health Sciences; 2004.
30. Bailey WC, Richards JM, Brooks CM, Soong S-j, Windsor RA, Manzella BA. A randomized trial to improve self-management practices of adults with asthma. Archives of Internal Medicine 1990;150:1664-1668.
31. Lahdensuo A, Haahtela T, Herrala J, et al. Randomised comparison of guided self management and traditional treatment of asthma over one year. Bmj 1996;312:748-752.
32. Powell H, Gibson PG. Options for self–management education for adults with asthma. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2002.
33. Coté J, Cartier A, Robichaud P, et al. Influence on asthma morbidity of asthma education programs based on self-management plans following treatment optimization. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1997;155:1509-1514.
34. Jones K, Mullee M, Middleton M, Chapman E, Holgate S. Peak flow based asthma self-management: a randomised controlled study in general practice. British Thoracic Society Research Committee. Thorax 1995;50:851-857.
35. Turner MO, Taylor D, Bennett R, FitzGerald JM. A randomized trial comparing peak expiratory flow and symptom self-management plans for patients with asthma attending a primary care clinic. American Journal of Respiratory and critical care medicine 1998;157:540-546.
36. Ignacio-Garcia JM, Gonzalez-Santos P. Asthma self-management education program by home monitoring of peak expiratory flow. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1995;151:353-359.

<PAGE>130