단원
IV 천식의 치료 및 예방

### (6) 환자-의사 간 소통과 환자의 만족도에 대한 모니터링

원활한 환자-의사간의 소통을 정기적으로 확인해야 한다(VII. 환자 교육 및 천식 행동지침 참고).

## 참고문헌

1. Juniper EF, Kline PA, Vanzieleghem MA, Ramsdale EH, O'Byrne PM, Hargreave FE. Effect of long-term treatment with an inhaled corticosteroid (budesonide) on airway hyperresponsiveness and clinical asthma in nonsteroid-dependent asthmatics. Am Rev Respir Dis 1990;142:832-836.
2. Childhood Asthma Management Program Research G, Szefler S, Weiss S, et al. Long-term effects of budesonide or nedocromil in children with asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2000;343:1054-1063.
3. Jeffery PK, Godfrey RW, Adelroth E, Nelson F, Rogers A, Johansson SA. Effects of treatment on airway inflammation and thickening of basement membrane reticular collagen in asthma. A quantitative light and electron microscopic study. Am Rev Respir Dis 1992;145:890-899.
4. Pauwels RA, Lofdahl CG, Postma DS, et al. Effect of inhaled formoterol and budesonide on exacerbations of asthma. Formoterol and Corticosteroids Establishing Therapy (FACET) International Study Group. The New England journal of medicine 1997;337:1405-1411.
5. Suissa S, Ernst P, Benayoun S, Baltzan M, Cai B. Low-dose inhaled corticosteroids and the prevention of death from asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2000;343:332-336.
6. Selroos O, Pietinhalho A, Lofroos AB, Riska H. Effect of early vs late intervention with inhaled corticosteroids in asthma. Chest 1995;108:1228-1234.
7. Busse WW, Pedersen S, Pauwels RA, et al. The Inhaled Steroid Treatment As Regular Therapy in Early Asthma (START) study 5-year follow-up: effectiveness of early intervention with budesonide in mild persistent asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2008;121:1167-1174.
8. Selroos O. Effect of disease duration on dose-response of inhaled budesonide in asthma. Respiratory medicine 2008;102:1065-1072.
9. Waalkens HJ, Van Essen-Zandvliet EE, Hughes MD, et al. Cessation of long-term treatment with inhaled corticosteroid (budesonide) in children with asthma results in deterioration. The Dutch CNSLD Study Group. Am Rev Respir Dis 1993;148:1252-1257.
10. Perera BJ. Successful withdrawal of inhaled corticosteroids in childhood asthma. Respirology (Carlton, Vic) 2005;10:385-388.
11. National Heart Lung and Blood Institute. New NHLBI guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma. The Lippincott health promotion letter 1997;2:1, 8-9.
12. Powell H, Gibson PG. Inhaled corticosteroid doses in asthma: an evidence-based approach. The Medical journal of Australia 2003;178:223-225.
13. Szefler SJ, Martin RJ, King TS, et al. Significant variability in response to inhaled corticosteroids for persistent asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2002;109:410-418.
14. Lazarus SC, Chinchilli VM, Rollings NJ, et al. Smoking affects response to inhaled corticosteroids or leukotriene receptor antagonists in asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2007;175:783-790.
15. Brown PH, Greening AP, Crompton GK. Large volume spacer devices and the influence of high dose beclomethasone dipropionate on hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis function. Thorax 1993;48:233-238.
16. Lipworth BJ, Kaliner MA, LaForce CF, et al. Effect of ciclesonide and fluticasone on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function in adults with mild-to-moderate persistent asthma. Annals of allergy, asthma & immunology

<PAGE>104