## 단원 VI 특수상황의 천식
142. Lim AS, Stewart K, Abramson MJ, Walker SP, Smith CL, George J. Multidisciplinary Approach to Management of Maternal Asthma (MAMMA): a randomized controlled trial. Chest 2014;145:1046-1054.
143. Busse WW. NAEPP expert panel report: managing asthma during pregnancy: recommendations for pharmacologic treatment—2004 update. Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2005;115:34-46.
144. Wenzel SE. Asthma phenotypes: the evolution from clinical to molecular approaches. Nat Med 2012;18:716-725.
145. Moore WC, Meyers DA, Wenzel SE, et al. Identification of asthma phenotypes using cluster analysis in the Severe Asthma Research Program. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2010;181:315-323.
146. von Mutius E, Schwartz J, Neas LM, Dockery D, Weiss ST. Relation of body mass index to asthma and atopy in children: the National Health and Nutrition Examination Study III. Thorax 2001;56:835-838.
147. Arif AA, Delclos GL, Lee ES, Tortolero SR, Whitehead LW. Prevalence and risk factors of asthma and wheezing among US adults: an analysis of the NHANES III data. The European respiratory journal 2003;21:827-833.
148. Young SY, Gunzenhauser JD, Malone KE, McTiernan A. Body mass index and asthma in the military population of the northwestern United States. Archives of internal medicine 2001;161:1605-1611.
149. Beuther DA, Sutherland ER. Overweight, obesity, and incident asthma: a meta-analysis of prospective epidemiologic studies. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2007;175:661-666.
150. Fitzpatrick S, Joks R, Silverberg JI. Obesity is associated with increased asthma severity and exacerbations, and increased serum immunoglobulin E in inner-city adults. Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2012;42:747-759.
151. van Veen IH, Ten Brinke A, Sterk PJ, Rabe KF, Bel EH. Airway inflammation in obese and nonobese patients with difficult-to-treat asthma. Allergy 2008;63:570-574.
152. Mosen DM, Schatz M, Magid DJ, Camargo CA, Jr. The relationship between obesity and asthma severity and control in adults. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2008;122:507-511. e6.
153. Stenius-Aarniala B, Poussa T, Kvarnstrom J, Gronlund EL, Ylikahri M, Mustajoki P. Immediate and long term effects of weight reduction in obese people with asthma: randomised controlled study. BMJ 2000;320:827-832.
154. Adeniyi FB, Young T. Weight loss interventions for chronic asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2012;7:CD009339.
155. Fitzgerald J. Global Strategy for Asthma Management and Prevention 2014 (revision). 2014.
156. Boulet LP. Asthma and obesity. Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2013;43:8-21.
157. Aaron SD, Vandemheen KL, Boulet LP, et al. Overdiagnosis of asthma in obese and nonobese adults. CMAJ 2008;179:1121-1131.
158. van Huisstede A, Castro Cabezas M, van de Geijn GJ, et al. Underdiagnosis and overdiagnosis of asthma in the morbidly obese. Respiratory medicine 2013;107:1356-1364.
159. Freitas PD, Ferreira PG, Silva AG, et al. The Role of Exercise in a Weight-Loss Program on Clinical Control in Obese Adults with Asthma. A Randomized Controlled Trial. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2017;195:32-42.
160. Leynaert B, Bousquet J, Neukirch C, Liard R, Neukirch F. Perennial rhinitis: An independent risk factor for asthma in nonatopic subjects: results from the European Community Respiratory Health Survey. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 1999;104:301-304.
161. Sibbald B, Rink E. Epidemiology of seasonal and perennial rhinitis: clinical presentation and medical history. Thorax 1991;46:895-901.
162. Shaaban R, Zureik M, Soussan D, et al. Rhinitis and onset of asthma: a longitudinal population-based study. Lancet 2008;372:1049-1057.
<PAGE>158