## 참고문헌

177. FitzGerald JM, Boulet LP, Follows RM. The CONCEPT trial: a 1-year, multicenter, randomized,double-blind, double-dummy comparison of a stable dosing regimen of salmeterol/fluticasone propionate with an adjustable maintenance dosing regimen of formoterol/budesonide in adults with persistent asthma. Clin Ther 2005;27:393-406.
178. Rank MA, Hagan JB, Park MA, et al. The risk of asthma exacerbation after stopping low-dose inhaled corticosteroids: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2013;131:724-729.
179. Hagan JB, Samant SA, Volcheck GW, et al. The risk of asthma exacerbation after reducing inhaled corticosteroids: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Allergy 2014;69:510-516.
180. Ahmad S, Kew KM, Normansell R. Stopping long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) for adults with asthma well controlled by LABA and inhaled corticosteroids. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2015;Cd011306.
181. Boulet LP, Drollmann A, Magyar P, et al. Comparative efficacy of once-daily ciclesonide and budesonide in the treatment of persistent asthma. Respiratory medicine 2006;100:785-794.
182. Masoli M, Weatherall M, Holt S, Beasley R. Budesonide once versus twice-daily administration: meta-analysis. Respirology (Carlton, Vic) 2004;9:528-534.
183. Rank MA, Gionfriddo MR, Pongdee T, et al. Stepping down from inhaled corticosteroids with leukotriene inhibitors in asthma: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Allergy and asthma proceedings : the official journal of regional and state allergy societies 2015;36:200-205.
184. Gionfriddo MR, Hagan JB, Hagan CR, Volcheck GW, Castaneda-Guarderas A, Rank MA. Stepping down inhaled corticosteroids from scheduled to as needed in stable asthma: Systematic review and meta-analysis. Allergy and asthma proceedings : the official journal of regional and state allergy societies 2015;36:262-267.
185. Patel M, Pilcher J, Reddel HK, et al. Metrics of salbutamol use as predictors of future adverse outcomes in asthma. Clin Exp Allergy 2013;43:1144-1151.
186. Miles JF, Bright P, Ayres JG, Cayton RM, Miller MR. The performance of Mini Wright peak flow meters after prolonged use. Respiratory medicine 1995;89:603-605.
187. Reddel HK, Marks GB, Jenkins CR. When can personal best peak flow be determined for asthma action plans? Thorax 2004;59:922-924.
188. Kerstjens HA, Brand PL, de Jong PM, Koeter GH, Postma DS. Influence of treatment on peak expiratory flow and its relation to airway hyperresponsiveness and symptoms. The Dutch CNSLD Study Group. Thorax 1994;49:1109-1115.
189. Frey U, Brodbeck T, Majumdar A, et al. Risk of severe asthma episodes predicted from fluctuation analysis of airway function. Nature 2005;438:667-670.
190. Miller MR, Hankinson J, Brusasco V, et al. Standardisation of spirometry. The European respiratory journal 2005;26:319-338.
191. Jansen J, McCaffery KJ, Hayen A, Ma D, Reddel HK. Impact of graphic format on perception of change in biological data: implications for health monitoring in conditions such as asthma. Primary care respiratory journal : journal of the General Practice Airways Group 2012;21:94-100.

<PAGE>113