persistent asthma who are inadequately controlled despite best available therapy (GINA 2002 step 4 treatment):
24. Normansell R, Walker S, Milan SJ, Walters EH, Nair P. Omalizumab for asthma in adults and children. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2014;Cd003559.
25. van Nooten F, Stern S, Braunstahl GJ, Thompson C, Groot M, Brown RE. Cost-effectiveness of omalizumab for uncontrolled allergic asthma in the Netherlands. Journal of medical economics 2013;16:342-348.
26. Norman G, Faria R, Paton F, et al. Omalizumab for the treatment of severe persistent allergic asthma: a systematic review and economic evaluation. Health technology assessment (Winchester, England) 2013;17:1-342.
27. Hoshino M, Ohtawa J. Effects of adding omalizumab, an anti-immunoglobulin E antibody, on airway wall thickening in asthma. Respiration; international review of thoracic diseases 2012;83:520-528.
28. Riccio AM, Dal Negro RW, Micheletto C, et al. Omalizumab modulates bronchial reticular basement membrane thickness and eosinophil infiltration in severe persistent allergic asthma patients. International journal of immunopathology and pharmacology 2012;25:475-484.
29. Hanania NA, Wenzel S, Rosen K, et al. Exploring the effects of omalizumab in allergic asthma: an analysis of biomarkers in the EXTRA study. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2013;187:804-811.
30. Lommatzsch M, Korn S, Buhl R, Virchow JC. Against all odds: anti-IgE for intrinsic asthma? Thorax 2014;69:94-96.
31. Lavaud F, Bonnilaud P, Dalphin JC, et al. Usefulness of omalizumab in ten patients with severe occupational asthma. Allergy 2013;68:813-815.
32. Rodrigo GJ, Neffen H, Castro-Rodriguez JA. Efficacy and safety of subcutaneous omalizumab vs placebo as add-on therapy to corticosteroids for children and adults with asthma: a systematic review. Chest 2011;139:28-35.
33. Chauhan BF, Ducharme FM. Addition to inhaled corticosteroids of long-acting beta2-agonists versus anti-leukotrienes for chronic asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2014;Cd003137.
34. Corren J, Casale TB, Lanier B, Buhl R, Holgate S, Jimenez P. Safety and tolerability of omalizumab. Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2009;39:788-797.
35. Farne HA, Wilson A, Powell C, Bax L, Milan SJ. Anti-IL5 therapies for asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2017;9:Cd010834.
36. Haldar P, Brightling CE, Hargadon B, et al. Mepolizumab and exacerbations of refractory eosinophilic asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2009;360:973-984.
37. Bel EH, Wenzel SE, Thompson PJ, et al. Oral glucocorticoid-sparing effect of mepolizumab in eosinophilic asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2014;371:1189-1197.
38. Ortega HG, Yancey SW, Mayer B, et al. Severe eosinophilic asthma treated with mepolizumab stratified by baseline eosinophil thresholds: a secondary analysis of the DREAM and MENSA studies. The Lancet Respiratory medicine 2016;4:549-556.
39. Magnan A, Bourdin A, Prazma CM, et al. Treatment response with mepolizumab in severe eosinophilic asthma patients with previous omalizumab treatment. Allergy 2016;71:1335-1344.
40. Nair P, Wenzel S, Rabe KF, et al. Oral Glucocorticoid-Sparing Effect of Benralizumab in Severe Asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2017;376:2448-2458.
41. Castro M, Corren J, Pavord ID, et al. Dupilumab Efficacy and Safety in Moderate-to-Severe Uncontrolled Asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2018;378:2486-2496.
42. Wenzel S, Castro M, Corren J, et al. Dupilumab efficacy and safety in adults with uncontrolled persistent asthma despite use of medium-to-high-dose inhaled corticosteroids plus a long-acting beta2 agonist: a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled pivotal phase 2b dose-ranging trial. Lancet 2016;388:31-44.
43. Rabe KF, Nair P, Brusselle G, et al. Efficacy and Safety of Dupilumab in Glucocorticoid-Dependent Severe

<PAGE>152