## 특수상황의 천식
101. Bateman ED, Hurd SS, Barnes PJ, et al. Global strategy for asthma management and prevention: GINA executive summary. The European respiratory journal 2008;31:143-178.
102. Fujimura M, Sakamoto S, Kamio Y, Matsuda T. Cough receptor sensitivity and bronchial responsiveness in normal and asthmatic subjects. The European respiratory journal 1992;5:291-295.
103. Di Franco A, Dente FL, Giannini D, et al. Effects of inhaled corticosteroids on cough threshold in patients with bronchial asthma. Pulmonary pharmacology & therapeutics 2001;14:35-40.
104. Fujimura M, Kamio Y, Hashimoto T, Matsuda T. Cough receptor sensitivity and bronchial responsiveness in patients with only chronic nonproductive cough: in view of effect of bronchodilator therapy. The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma 1994;31:463-472.
105. Fujimura M, Ogawa H, Nishizawa Y, Nishi K. Comparison of atopic cough with cough variant asthma: is atopic cough a precursor of asthma? Thorax 2003;58:14-18.
106. Desai D, Brightling C. Cough due to asthma, cough-variant asthma and non-asthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis. Otolaryngol Clin North Am 2010;43:123-130, x.
107. Dicpinigaitis PV, Dobkin JB, Reichel J. Antitussive effect of the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast in subjects with cough-variant asthma. The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma 2002;39:291-297.
108. Spector SL, Tan RA. Effectiveness of montelukast in the treatment of cough variant asthma. Annals of allergy, asthma & immunology : official publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology 2004;93:232-236.
109. Parsons JP, Hallstrand TS, Mastronarde JG, et al. An official American Thoracic Society clinical practice guideline: exercise-induced bronchoconstriction. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2013;187:1016-1027.
110. Lazarinis N, Jorgensen L, Ekstrom T, et al. Combination of budesonide/formoterol on demand improves asthma control by reducing exercise-induced bronchoconstriction. Thorax 2014;69:130-136.
111. Baur X, Sigsgaard T, Aasen TB, et al. Guidelines for the management of work-related asthma. The European respiratory journal 2012;39:529-545.
112. Tarlo SM, Malo JL. Third Jack Pepys Workshop on Asthma in the Workplace P. An official ATS proceedings: asthma in the workplace: the Third Jack Pepys Workshop on Asthma in the Workplace: answered and unanswered questions. Proc Am Thorac Soc 2009;6:339-349.
113. Heederik D, Henneberger PK, Redlich CA. Asthma ERSTFotMoW-r. Primary prevention: exposure reduction, skin exposure and respiratory protection. European respiratory review : an official journal of the European Respiratory Society 2012;21:112-124.
114. Vandenplas O, Dressel H, Wilken D, et al. Management of occupational asthma: cessation or reduction of exposure? A systematic review of available evidence. The European respiratory journal 2011;38:804-811.
115. Szczeklik A, Nizankowska E, Duplaga M. Natural history of aspirin-induced asthma. AIANE Investigators. European Network on Aspirin-Induced Asthma. The European respiratory journal 2000;16:432-436.
116. Stevenson DD. Diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of adverse reactions to aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 1984;74:617-622.
117. Szczeklik A, Sanak M, Nizankowska-Mogilnicka E, Kielbasa B. Aspirin intolerance and the cyclooxygenase-leukotriene pathways. Current opinion in pulmonary medicine 2004;10:51-56.
118. Mascia K, Haselkorn T, Deniz YM, et al. Aspirin sensitivity and severity of asthma: evidence for irreversible airway obstruction in patients with severe or difficult-to-treat asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2005;116:970-975.
119. Morales DR, Guthrie B, Lipworth BJ, Jackson C, Donnan PT, Santiago VH. NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease: a meta-analysis evaluating prevalence, mean provocative dose of aspirin and increased asthma
<PAGE>156