## 참고문헌
81. British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2012;42:693-705.
82. Sin DD, Sutherland ER. Obesity and the lung: 4. Obesity and asthma. Thorax 2008;63:1018-1023.
83. Recommendations for the prevention and treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. American College of Rheumatology Task Force on Osteoporosis Guidelines. Arthritis and rheumatism 1996;39:1791-1801.
84. Campbell IA, Douglas JG, Francis RM, Prescott RJ, Reid DM. Five year study of etidronate and/or calcium as prevention and treatment for osteoporosis and fractures in patients with asthma receiving long term oral and/ or inhaled glucocorticoids. Thorax 2004;59:761-768.
85. Eastell R, Reid DM, Compston J, et al. A UK Consensus Group on management of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis: an update. Journal of internal medicine 1998;244:271-292.
86. Kim YK, Kim SH, Tak YJ, et al. High prevalence of current asthma and active smoking effect among the elderly. Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2002;32:1706-1712.
87. Adams RJ, Wilson DH, Appleton S, et al. Underdiagnosed asthma in South Australia. Thorax 2003;58:846-850.
88. Parshall MB, Schwartzstein RM, Adams L, et al. An official American Thoracic Society statement: update on the mechanisms, assessment, and management of dyspnea. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2012;185:435-452.
89. Januzzi JL, Jr., Camargo CA, Anwaruddin S, et al. The N-terminal Pro-BNP investigation of dyspnea in the emergency department (PRIDE) study. The American journal of cardiology 2005;95:948-954.
90. Reed CE. Asthma in the elderly: diagnosis and management. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2010;126:681-687; quiz 8-9.
91. Gibson PG, McDonald VM, Marks GB. Asthma in older adults. Lancet 2010;376:803-813.
92. Slavin RG, Haselkorn T, Lee JH, Zheng B, Deniz Y, Wenzel SE. Asthma in older adults: observations from the epidemiology and natural history of asthma: outcomes and treatment regimens (TENOR) study. Annals of allergy, asthma & immunology : official publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology 2006;96:406-414.
93. Haughney J, Aubier M, Jorgensen L, et al. Comparing asthma treatment in elderly versus younger patients. Respiratory medicine 2011;105:838-845.
94. Bellia V, Pistelli R, Catalano F, et al. Quality control of spirometry in the elderly. The SA.RA. study. SA.lute Respiration nell'Anziano = Respiratory Health in the Elderly. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2000;161:1094-1100.
95. Pezzoli L, Giardini G, Consonni S, et al. Quality of spirometric performance in older people. Age Ageing 2003;32:43-46.
96. Huss K, Naumann PL, Mason PJ, et al. Asthma severity, atopic status, allergen exposure and quality of life in elderly persons. Annals of allergy, asthma & immunology : official publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology 2001;86:524-530.
97. Olin AC, Rosengren A, Thelle DS, Lissner L, Bake B, Toren K. Height, age, and atopy are associated with fraction of exhaled nitric oxide in a large adult general population sample. Chest 2006;130:1319-1325.
98. Vincken W, Dekhuijzen PR, Barnes P. The ADMIT series - Issues in inhalation therapy. 4) How to choose inhaler devices for the treatment of COPD. Primary care respiratory journal : journal of the General Practice Airways Group 2010;19:10-20.
99. Baptist AP, Ross JA, Clark NM. Older adults with asthma: does age of asthma onset make a difference? The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma 2013;50:836-841.
100. Mirabelli MC, Beavers SF, Shepler SH, Chatterjee AB. Age at asthma onset and asthma self-management education among adults in the United States. The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma 2015;52:974-980.
<PAGE>155