단원 VI
# 특수 상황의 천식

63. Dahlen B, Nizankowska E, Szczeklik A, et al. Benefits from adding the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton to conventional therapy in aspirin-intolerant asthmatics. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1998;157:1187-1194.
64. Dahlen SE, Malmstrom K, Nizankowska E, et al. Improvement of aspirin-intolerant asthma by montelukast, a leukotriene antagonist: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2002;165:9-14.
65. Robinson DS, Campbell D, Barnes PJ. Addition of leukotriene antagonists to therapy in chronic persistent asthma: a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2001;357:2007-2011.
66. Virchow JC, Mehta A, Ljungblad L, Mitfessel H. Add-on montelukast in inadequately controlled asthma patients in a 6-month open-label study: the MONtelukast In Chronic Asthma (MONICA) study. Respiratory medicine 2010;104:644-651.
67. Bozek A, Warkocka-Szoltysek B, Filipowska-Gronska A, Jarzab J. Montelukast as an add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids in the treatment of severe asthma in elderly patients. The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma 2012;49:530-534.
68. Chauhan BF, Jeyaraman MM, Singh Mann A, et al. Addition of anti-leukotriene agents to inhaled corticosteroids for adults and adolescents with persistent asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2017;3:Cd010347.
69. Sutherland ER, Goleva E, Strand M, Beuther DA, Leung DY. Body mass and glucocorticoid response in asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2008;178:682-687.
70. Chalmers GW, Macleod KJ, Little SA, Thomson LJ, McSharry CP, Thomson NC. Influence of cigarette smoking on inhaled corticosteroid treatment in mild asthma. Thorax 2002;57:226-230.
71. Xystrakis E, Kusumakar S, Boswell S, et al. Reversing the defective induction of IL-10-secreting regulatory T cells in glucocorticoid-resistant asthma patients. The Journal of clinical investigation 2006;116:146-155.
72. Berry M, Morgan A, Shaw DE, et al. Pathological features and inhaled corticosteroid response of eosinophilic and non-eosinophilic asthma. Thorax 2007;62:1043-1049.
73. Davies H, Olson L, Gibson P. Methotrexate as a steroid sparing agent for asthma in adults. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2000;Cd000391.
74. Lock SH, Kay AB, Barnes NC. Double-blind, placebo-controlled study of cyclosporin A as a corticosteroid-sparing agent in corticosteroid-dependent asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1996;153:509-514.
75. Salmun LM, Barlan I, Wolf HM, et al. Effect of intravenous immunoglobulin on steroid consumption in patients with severe asthma: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 1999;103:810-815.
76. Nierop G, Gijzel WP, Bel EH, Zwinderman AH, Dijkman JH. Auranofin in the treatment of steroid dependent asthma: a double blind study. Thorax 1992;47:349-354.
77. Adams NP, Bestall JC, Jones P, Lasserson TJ, Griffiths B, Cates CJ. Fluticasone at different doses for chronic asthma in adults and children. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2008;Cd003534.
78. Lipworth BJ. Systemic adverse effects of inhaled corticosteroid therapy: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Archives of internal medicine 1999;159:941-955.
79. Pauwels RA, Yernault JC, Demedts MG, Geusens P. Safety and efficacy of fluticasone and beclomethasone in moderate to severe asthma. Belgian Multicenter Study Group. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1998;157:827-832.
80. Petsky HL, Cates CJ, Lasserson TJ, et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis: tailoring asthma treatment on eosinophilic markers (exhaled nitric oxide or sputum eosinophils). Thorax 2012;67:199-208.
81. Hashimoto S, Bel EH. Current treatment of severe asthma. Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the

<PAGE>154