30. asthma: a cohort study. The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma. 2001;38(2):179-184.

### 천식의 진단, 평가 및 감별진단

31. Goodwin RD, Fergusson DM, Horwood LJ. Asthma and depressive and anxiety disorders among young persons in the community. Psychological medicine. 2004;34(8):1465-1474.
32. Eisner MD, Katz PP, Yelin EH, Shiboski SC, Blanc PD. Risk factors for hospitalization among adults with asthma: the influence of sociodemographic factors and asthma severity. Respiratory research. 2000;2(1):53.
33. Diette GB, Krishnan JA, Dominici F, et al. Asthma in older patients: factors associated with hospitalization. Archives of internal medicine. 2002;162(10):1123-1132.
34. Bateman ED, Boushey HA, Bousquet J, et al. Can guideline-defined asthma control be achieved? The Gaining Optimal Asthma ControL study. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine. 2004;170(8):836-844.
35. Bateman ED, Bousquet J, Keech ML, Busse WW, Clark TJ, Pedersen SE. The correlation between asthma control and health status: the GOAL study. Eur Respir J. 2007;29(1):56-62.
36. Osborne ML, Pedula KL, O’Hollaren M, et al. Assessing future need for acute care in adult asthmatics: the Profile of Asthma Risk Study: a prospective health maintenance organization-based study. Chest. 2007;132(4):1151-1161.
37. van Rensen EL, Sont JK, Evertse CE, et al. Bronchial CD8 cell infiltrate and lung function decline in asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine. 2005;172(7):837-841.
38. Haldar P, Pavord ID, Shaw DE, et al. Cluster analysis and clinical asthma phenotypes. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine. 2008;178(3):218-224.
39. McCoy K1 SD, Irvin CG, Mastronarde JG, Hanania NA, Castro M, Anthonisen NR; American Lung Association Asthma Clinical Research Centers. Predicting episodes of poor asthma control in treated patients with asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology. 2006;118(6):1226-1233.
40. Use of the Asthma Control Questionnaire to predict future risk of asthma exacerbation. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology. 2011;127(1):167-172.
41. Schatz M ZR, Yang SJ, Chen W, Crawford W, Sajjan S, Allen-Ramey F. The relationship of asthma impairment determined by psychometric tools to future asthma exacerbations. Chest. 2012;141(1):66-72.
42. Michael E. Wechsler MD, John M. Kelley, Ph.D., Ingrid O.E. Boyd, M.P.H., Stefanie Dutile, B.S., Gautham Marigowda, M.B., Irving Kirsch, Ph.D., Elliot Israel, M.D., and Ted J. Kaptchuk. Active Albuterol or Placebo, Sham Acupuncture, or No Intervention in Asthma. N Engl J Med. 2011;365(2):119-126.
43. SS. G. Effectiveness and safety of bronchial thermoplasty in the treatment of severe asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine. 2010;158(12):1565.
44. Lazarus SC1 BH, Fahy JV, Chinchilli VM, Lemanske RF Jr, Sorkness CA, Kraft M, Fish JE, Peters SP, Craig T, Drazen JM, Ford JG, Israel E, Martin RJ, Mauger EA, Nachman SA, Spahn JD, Szefler SJ; Asthma Clinical Research Network for the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Long-acting beta2-agonist monotherapy vs continued therapy with inhaled corticosteroids in patients with persistent asthma: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 2001;285(20):2583.
45. Halvorsen T WE, Bucca C, Bush A, Cantarella G, Friedrich G, Herth FJ8, Hull JH, Jung H, Maat R, Nordang L, Remacle M, Rasmussen N, Wilson JA, Heimdal JH. Inducible laryngeal obstruction: an official joint European Respiratory Society and European Laryngological Society statement. Eur Respir J. 2017;50(3).
46. Kerstjens HA BP, de Jong PM, Koëter GH, Postma DS. Influence of treatment on peak expiratory flow and its relation to airway hyperresponsiveness and symptoms. The Dutch CNSLD Study Group. Thorax. 1994;49(11):1109-1115.
47. Jenkins CR TF, Wheatley JR, Reddel HK. Traditional and patient-centred outcomes with three classes of asthma medication. Eur Respir J. 2005;26(1):36-44.
48. Fuhlbrigge AL, Kitch BT, Paltiel AD, et al. FEV(1) is associated with risk of asthma attacks in a pediatric population.

<PAGE>64