## 단원 IV 천식의 치료 및 예방

2012;5:CD002314.
36. Philip G, Williams-Herman D, Patel P, et al. Efficacy of montelukast for treating perennial allergic rhinitis. Allergy and asthma proceedings : the official journal of regional and state allergy societies 2007;28:296-304.
37. Nelson HS, Busse WW, Kerwin E, et al. Fluticasone propionate/salmeterol combination provides more effective asthma control than low-dose inhaled corticosteroid plus montelukast. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2000;106:1088-1095.
38. Mash B, Bheekie A, Jones PW. Inhaled vs oral steroids for adults with chronic asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2001;CD002160.
39. Toogood JH, Baskerville J, Jennings B, Lefcoe NM, Johansson SA. Bioequivalent doses of budesonide and prednisone in moderate and severe asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 1989;84:688-700.
40. Chung KF, Wenzel SE, Brozek JL, et al. International ERS/ATS guidelines on definition, evaluation and treatment of severe asthma. The European respiratory journal 2014;43:343-373.
41. Walsh LJ, Wong CA, Oborne J, et al. Adverse effects of oral corticosteroids in relation to dose in patients with lung disease. Thorax 2001;56:279-284.
42. Lefebvre P, Duh MS, Lafeuille MH, et al. Acute and chronic systemic corticosteroid-related complications in patients with severe asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2015;136:1488-1495.
43. Grossman JM, Gordon R, Ranganath VK, et al. American College of Rheumatology 2010 recommendations for the prevention and treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken) 2010;62:1515-1526.
44. Brusselle GG, Vanderstichele C, Jordens P, et al. Azithromycin for prevention of exacerbations in severe asthma (AZISAST): a multicentre randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Thorax 2013;68:322-329.
45. Gibson PG, Yang IA, Upham JW, et al. Effect of azithromycin on asthma exacerbations and quality of life in adults with persistent uncontrolled asthma (AMAZES): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2017;390:659-668.
46. Welsh EJ, Cates CJ. Formoterol versus short-acting beta-agonists as relief medication for adults and children with asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2010;CD008418.
47. Lazarinis N, Jorgensen L, Ekstrom T, et al. Combination of budesonide/formoterol on demand improves asthma control by reducing exercise-induced bronchoconstriction. Thorax 2014;69:130-136.
48. Baldwin DR, Sivardeen Z, Pavord ID, Knox AJ. Comparison of the effects of salbutamol and adrenaline on airway smooth muscle contractility in vitro and on bronchial reactivity in vivo. Thorax 1994;49:1103-1108.
49. Lanes SF, Garrett JE, Wentworth CE, 3rd, Fitzgerald JM, Karpel JP. The effect of adding ipratropium bromide to salbutamol in the treatment of acute asthma: a pooled analysis of three trials. Chest 1998;114:365-372.
50. Rodrigo G, Rodrigo C, Burschtin O. A meta-analysis of the effects of ipratropium bromide in adults with acute asthma. The American journal of medicine 1999;107:363-370.
51. Stoodley RG, Aaron SD, Dales RE. The role of ipratropium bromide in the emergency management of acute asthma exacerbation: a metaanalysis of randomized clinical trials. Annals of emergency medicine 1999;34:8-18.
52. Tamaoki J, Chiyotani A, Tagaya E, Sakai N, Konno K. Effect of long term treatment with oxitropium bromide on airway secretion in chronic bronchitis and diffuse panbronchiolitis. Thorax 1994;49:545-548.
53. Normansell R, Walker S, Milan SJ, Walters EH, Nair P. Omalizumab for asthma in adults and children. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2014;Cd003559.
54. Rodrigo GJ, Neffen H. Systematic review on the use of omalizumab for the treatment of asthmatic children and adolescents. Pediatr Allergy Immunol 2015;26:551-556.
55. Hanania NA, Alpan O, Hamilos DL, et al. Omalizumab in severe allergic asthma inadequately controlled with standard therapy: a randomized trial. Ann Intern Med 2011;154:573-582.

<PAGE>106