19. Gibson PG, Powell H, Coughlan J, et al. Limited (information only) patient education programs for adults with asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2002:CD001005.
20. Houts PS, Bachrach R, Witmer JT, Tringali CA, Bucher JA, Localio RA. Using pictographs to enhance recall of spoken medical instructions. Patient education and counseling 1998;35:83-88.
21. Partridge MR, Caress AL, Brown C, et al. Can lay people deliver asthma self-management education as effectively as primary care based practice nurses? Thorax 2008;63:778-783.
22. Gibson PG, Powell H. Written action plans for asthma: an evidence-based review of the key components. Thorax 2004;59:94-99.
23. Tudoric N, Vrbica Z, Pavicic F, et al. [Guidelines for diagnosis and management of asthma in adults of the Croatian Respiratory Society]. Lijec Vjesn 2007;129:315-321.
24. Williams LK, Peterson EL, Wells K, et al. A cluster-randomized trial to provide clinicians inhaled corticosteroid adherence information for their patients with asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2010;126:225-231, 31 e1-4.
25. Emerman CL, Woodruff PG, Cydulka RK, Gibbs MA, Pollack CV, Jr., Camargo CA, Jr. Prospective multicenter study of relapse following treatment for acute asthma among adults presenting to the emergency department. MARC investigators. Multicenter Asthma Research Collaboration. Chest 1999;115:919-927.
26. Clark NM, Brown R, Joseph CL, Anderson EW, Liu M, Valerio MA. Effects of a comprehensive school-based asthma program on symptoms, parent management, grades, and absenteeism. Chest 2004;125:1674-1679.
27. Bryant-Stephens T, Li Y. Community asthma education program for parents of urban asthmatic children. Journal of the National Medical Association 2004;96:954-960.
<PAGE>171