## 참고문헌
163. Price D, Zhang Q, Kocevar VS, Yin DD, Thomas M. Effect of a concomitant diagnosis of allergic rhinitis on asthma-related health care use by adults. Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2005;35:282-287.
164. Malo JL, Lemiere C, Desjardins A, Cartier A. Prevalence and intensity of rhinoconjunctivitis in subjects with occupational asthma. The European respiratory journal 1997;10:1513-1515.
165. Brožek JL, Bousquet J, Agache I, et al. Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma (ARIA) guidelines 2014;2016 revision. Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2017;140:950-958.
166. Brožek JL, Bousquet J, Baena-Cagnani CE, et al. Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma (ARIA) guidelines: 2010 revision. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2010;126:466-476.
167. Bentley AM, Jacobson MR, Cumberworth V, et al. Immunohistology of the nasal mucosa in seasonal allergic rhinitis: increases in activated eosinophils and epithelial mast cells. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 1992;89:877-883.
168. Pauwels R. Influence of treatment on the nose and/or the lungs. Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology 1998;28 Suppl 2:37-40.
169. Adams RJ, Fuhlbrigge AL, Finkelstein JA, Weiss ST. Intranasal steroids and the risk of emergency department visits for asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2002;109:636-642.
170. Dykewicz MS, Fineman S. Executive Summary of Joint Task Force Practice Parameters on Diagnosis and Management of Rhinitis. Annals of allergy, asthma & immunology : official publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology 1998;81:463-468.
171. Taramarcaz P, Gibson PG. Intranasal corticosteroids for asthma control in people with coexisting asthma and rhinitis. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2003;Cd003570.
172. Dahl R, Nielsen LP, Kips J, et al. Intranasal and inhaled fluticasone propionate for pollen-induced rhinitis and asthma. Allergy 2005;60:875-881.
173. Corren J, Manning BE, Thompson SF, Hennessy S, Strom BL. Rhinitis therapy and the prevention of hospital care for asthma: a case-control study. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2004;113:415-419.
174. Dolovich MB, Ahrens RC, Hess DR, et al. Device selection and outcomes of aerosol therapy: Evidence-based guidelines: American College of Chest Physicians/American College of Asthma, Allergy, and Immunology. Chest 2005;127:335-371.
175. Wilson AM, O'Byrne PM, Parameswaran K. Leukotriene receptor antagonists for allergic rhinitis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. The American journal of medicine 2004;116:338-344.
176. Abramson MJ, Puy RM, Weiner JM. Allergen immunotherapy for asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2003;Cd001186.
177. Bousquet J, Van Cauwenberge P, Khaltaev N. Allergic rhinitis and its impact on asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2001;108:S147-S334.
178. Vignola AM, Humbert M, Bousquet J, et al. Efficacy and tolerability of anti-immunoglobulin E therapy with omalizumab in patients with concomitant allergic asthma and persistent allergic rhinitis: SOLAR. Allergy 2004;59:709-717.
179. Kopp MV, Brauburger J, Riedinger F, et al. The effect of anti-IgE treatment on in vitro leukotriene release in children with seasonal allergic rhinitis. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2002;110:728-735.
180. Rossi OV, Pirila T, Laitinen J, Huhti E. Sinus aspirates and radiographic abnormalities in severe attacks of asthma. International archives of allergy and immunology 1994;103:209-213.
181. Larsen K. The clinical relationship of nasal polyps to asthma. Allergy Asthma Proc 1996;17:243-249.
182. Lamblin C, Tillie-Leblond I, Darras J, et al. Sequential evaluation of pulmonary function and bronchial hyperresponsiveness in patients with nasal polyposis: a prospective study. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1997;155:99-103.
<PAGE>159