: official publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology 2005;94:465-472.
17. Lipworth BJ. Systemic adverse effects of inhaled corticosteroid therapy: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Archives of internal medicine 1999;159:941-955.
18. Barnes PJ. Efficacy of inhaled corticosteroids in asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 1998;102:531-538.
19. Mak VH, Melchor R, Spiro SG. Easy bruising as a side-effect of inhaled corticosteroids. The European respiratory journal 1992;5:1068-1074.
20. Pauwels RA, Yernault JC, Demedts MG, Geusens P. Safety and efficacy of fluticasone and beclomethasone in moderate to severe asthma. Belgian Multicenter Study Group. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1998;157:827-832.
21. Cumming RG, Mitchell P, Leeder SR. Use of inhaled corticosteroids and the risk of cataracts. The New England journal of medicine 1997;337:8-14.
22. Garbe E, LeLorier J, Boivin JF, Suissa S. Inhaled and nasal glucocorticoids and the risks of ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma. JAMA : the journal of the American Medical Association 1997;277:722-727.
23. Toogood JH, Markov AE, Baskerville J, Dyson C. Association of ocular cataracts with inhaled and oral steroid therapy during long-term treatment of asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 1993;91:571-579.
24. Lee CH, Kim K, Hyun MK, Jang EJ, Lee NR, Yim JJ. Use of inhaled corticosteroids and the risk of tuberculosis. Thorax 2013;68:1105-1113.
25. BahceciIer NN, Nuhoglu Y, Nursoy MA, Kodalli N, Barlan IB, Basaran MM. Inhaled corticosteroid therapy is safe in tuberculin-positive asthmatic children. The Pediatric infectious disease journal 2000;19:215-218.
26. Lemanske RF, Jr., Sorkness CA, Mauger EA, et al. Inhaled corticosteroid reduction and elimination in patients with persistent asthma receiving salmeterol: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA : the journal of the American Medical Association 2001;285:2594-2603.
27. Pearlman DS, Chervinsky P, LaForce C, et al. A comparison of salmeterol with albuterol in the treatment of mild-to-moderate asthma. The New England journal of medicine 1992;327:1420-1425.
28. Lalloo UG, Malolepszy J, Kozma D, et al. Budesonide and formoterol in a single inhaler improves asthma control compared with increasing the dose of corticosteroid in adults with mild-to-moderate asthma. Chest 2003;123:1480-1487.
29. Rabe KF, Pizzichini E, Stallberg B, et al. Budesonide/formoterol in a single inhaler for maintenance and relief in mild-to-moderate asthma: a randomized, double-blind trial. Chest 2006;129:246-256.
30. Reddel HK, FitzGerald JM, Bateman ED, et al. GINA 2019: a fundamental change in asthma management: Treatment of asthma with short-acting bronchodilators alone is no longer recommended for adults and adolescents. The European respiratory journal 2019;53.
31. Cates CJ, Jaeschke R, Schmidt S, Ferrer M. Regular treatment with salmeterol and inhaled steroids for chronic asthma: serious adverse events. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2013;3:CD006922.
32. Wechsler ME, Kunselman SJ, Chinchilli VM, et al. Effect of beta2-adrenergic receptor polymorphism on response to longacting beta2 agonist in asthma (LARGE trial): a genotype-stratified, randomised, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. Lancet 2009;374:1754-1764.
33. Drazen JM, Israel E, O'Byrne PM. Treatment of asthma with drugs modifying the leukotriene pathway. The New England journal of medicine 1999;340:197-206.
34. Bleecker ER, Welch MJ, Weinstein SF, et al. Low-dose inhaled fluticasone propionate versus oral zafirlukast in the treatment of persistent asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2000;105:1123-1129.
35. Chauhan BF, Ducharme FM. Anti-leukotriene agents compared to inhaled corticosteroids in the management of recurrent and/or chronic asthma in adults and children. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews
<PAGE>105