# 참고문헌

56. Brusselle G, Michils A, Louis R, et al. “Real-life” effectiveness of omalizumab in patients with severe persistent allergic asthma: The PERSIST study. Respiratory medicine 2009;103:1633-1642.
57. Humbert M, Taille C, Mala L, Le Gros V, Just J, Molimard M. Omalizumab effectiveness in patients with severe allergic asthma according to blood eosinophil count: the STELLAIR study. The European respiratory journal 2018;51.
58. Hanania NA, Wenzel S, Rosen K, et al. Exploring the effects of omalizumab in allergic asthma: an analysis of biomarkers in the EXTRA study. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2013;187:804-811.
59. Casale TB, Chipps BE, Rosen K, et al. Response to omalizumab using patient enrichment criteria from trials of novel biologics in asthma. Allergy 2018;73:490-497.
60. Busse WW. Are peripheral blood eosinophil counts a guideline for omalizumab treatment? STELLAIR says no! The European respiratory journal 2018;51.
61. Humbert M, Busse W, Hanania NA, et al. Omalizumab in asthma: an update on recent developments. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract 2014;2:525-536.e1.
62. Katial RK, Bensch GW, Busse WW, et al. Changing Paradigms in the Treatment of Severe Asthma: The Role of Biologic Therapies. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract 2017;5:S1-S14.
63. Busse W, Buhl R, Fernandez Vidaurre C, et al. Omalizumab and the risk of malignancy: results from a pooled analysis. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2012;129:983-989.e6.
64. Long A, Rahmaoui A, Rothman KJ, et al. Incidence of malignancy in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma treated with or without omalizumab. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2014;134:560-567.e4.
65. Farne HA, Wilson A, Powell C, Bax L, Milan SJ. Anti-IL5 therapies for asthma. Cochrane Db Syst Rev 2017.
66. Haldar P, Brightling CE, Hargadon B, et al. Mepolizumab and exacerbations of refractory eosinophilic asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2009;360:973-984.
67. Bel EH, Wenzel SE, Thompson PJ, et al. Oral Glucocorticoid-Sparing Effect of Mepolizumab in Eosinophilic Asthma. New Engl J Med 2014;371:1189-1197.
68. Brusselle G, Germinaro M, Weiss S, Zangrilli J. Reslizumab in patients with inadequately controlled late-onset asthma and elevated blood eosinophils. Pulm Pharmacol Ther 2017;43:39-45.
69. Busse WW, Katial R, Gossage D, et al. Safety profile, pharmacokinetics, and biologic activity of MEDI-563, an anti-IL-5 receptor alpha antibody, in a phase I study of subjects with mild asthma. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2010;125:1237-1244.e2.
70. Diver S, Russell RJ, Brightling CE. New and emerging drug treatments for severe asthma. Clin Exp Allergy 2018;48:241-252.
71. FitzGerald JM, Bleecker ER, Nair P, et al. Benralizumab, an anti-interleukin-5 receptor alpha monoclonal antibody, as add-on treatment for patients with severe, uncontrolled, eosinophilic asthma (CALIMA): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial. Lancet 2016;388:2128-2141.
72. Cao C, Kong X, Huang X. Glucocorticoid Sparing of Benralizumab in Asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2017;377:1205.
73. Castro M, Corren J, Pavord ID, et al. Dupilumab Efficacy and Safety in Moderate-to-Severe Uncontrolled Asthma. The New England journal of medicine 2018;378:2486-2496.
74. Wenzel S, Castro M, Corren J, et al. Dupilumab efficacy and safety in adults with uncontrolled persistent asthma despite use of medium-to-high-dose inhaled corticosteroids plus a long-acting beta2 agonist: a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled pivotal phase 2b dose-ranging trial. Lancet 2016;388:31-44.
75. Kerstjens HA, Casale TB, Bleecker ER, et al. Tiotropium or salmeterol as add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids for patients with moderate symptomatic asthma: two replicate, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, active-comparator, randomised trials. The Lancet Respiratory medicine 2015;3:367-376.
76. Kerstjens HA, Dissee B, Schroder-Babo W, et al. Tiotropium improves lung function in patients with severe uncontrolled asthma: a randomized controlled trial. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2011;128:308-314.

<PAGE>107

# 단원 IV 천식의 치료 및 예방

77. Kerstjens HA, Engel M, Dahl R, et al. Tiotropium in asthma poorly controlled with standard combination therapy. The New England journal of medicine 2012;367:1198-1207.
78. Kew KM, Evans DJ, Allison DE, Boyter AC. Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) versus addition of long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) for adults with asthma. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2015:CD011438.
79. Sobieraj DM, Baker WL, Nguyen E, et al. Association of Inhaled Corticosteroids and Long-Acting Muscarinic Antagonists With Asthma Control in Patients With Uncontrolled, Persistent Asthma: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. JAMA : the journal of the American Medical Association 2018;319:1473-1484.
80. Dahl R, Engel M, Dusser D, et al. Safety and tolerability of once-daily tiotropium Respimat((R)) as add-on to at least inhaled corticosteroids in adult patients with symptomatic asthma: A pooled safety analysis. Respiratory medicine 2016;118:102-111.
81. Dusser D, Ducharme FM. Safety of tiotropium in patients with asthma. Therapeutic advances in respiratory disease 2019;13:1753466618824010.
82. Kidney J, Dominguez M, Taylor PM, Rose M, Chung KF, Barnes PJ. Immunomodulation by theophylline in asthma. Demonstration by withdrawal of therapy. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1995;151:1907-1914.
83. American Lung Association Asthma Clinical Research C. Clinical trial of low-dose theophylline and montelukast in patients with poorly controlled asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2007;175:235-242.
84. Davies B, Brooks G, Devoy M. The efficacy and safety of salmeterol compared to theophylline: meta-analysis of nine controlled studies. Respiratory medicine 1998;92:256-263.
85. Rivington RN, Boulet LP, Cote J, et al. Efficacy of Uniphyl, salbutamol, and their combination in asthmatic patients on high-dose inhaled steroids. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1995;151:325-332.
86. Barnes PJ. Theophylline. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2013;188:901-906.
87. Global Strategy for Asthma Management and Prevention. Updated 2019. (Accessed January 1, 2020, at http://www.ginasthma.org.)
88. Marin MG. Low-dose methotrexate spares steroid usage in steroid-dependent asthmatic patients: a meta-analysis. Chest 1997;112:29-33.
89. Aaron SD, Dales RE, Pham B. Management of steroid-dependent asthma with methotrexate: a meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials. Respiratory medicine 1998;92:1059-1065.
90. Davies H, Olson L, Gibson P. Methotrexate as a steroid sparing agent for asthma in adults. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews 2000:Cd000391.
91. Lock SH, Kay AB, Barnes NC. Double-blind, placebo-controlled study of cyclosporin A as a corticosteroid-sparing agent in corticosteroid-dependent asthma. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 1996;153:509-514.
92. Nierop G, Gijzel WP, Bel EH, Zwinderman AH, Dijkman JH. Auranofin in the treatment of steroid dependent asthma: a double blind study. Thorax 1992;47:349-354.
93. Bernstein IL, Bernstein DI, Dubb JW, Faiferman I, Wallin B. A placebo-controlled multicenter study of auranofin in the treatment of patients with corticosteroid-dependent asthma. Auranofin Multicenter Drug Trial. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 1996;98:317-324.
94. SIGN 158 British guideline on the management of asthma. 2019. (Accessed Dec 20, 2019, at https://www.sign.ac.uk/assets/sign158.pdf.)

<PAGE>108