## 참고 문헌

(13) Chou R, Qaseem A, Snow V, Casey D, Cross JT, Jr., Shekelle P, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of low back pain: a joint clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians and the American Pain Society. Ann Intern Med. 2007;147 (7):478−91.
(28) van Tulder MW, Touray T, Furlan AD, Solway S, Bouter LM, Cochrane Back Review G. Muscle relaxants for nonspecific low back pain: a systematic review within the framework of the cochrane collaboration. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2003;28 (17):1978−92.
(30) Varatharajan T, Varatharajan S, Cote P, Ameis A, Wonjg JJ, Southerst D et al (2014) Decision determinants and evidence table for neck pain and associated disorders and non−specific low back pain : muscle relaxants and analgesics. Report to the Financial Services Commision of Ontario
(55) Wong JJ, Cote P, Sutton DA, Randhawa K, Yu H, Varatharajan S, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for the noninvasive management of low back pain: A systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) Collaboration. Eur J Pain. 2017;21 (2):201−16.
(58) Livingston, C., King, V., Little, A., Pettinari, C., Thielke, A., Gordon, C. (2011). Evidence−Based Clinical Guidelines Project. Evaluation and Management of Low Back Pain: A Clinical Practice Guideline Based on the Joint Practice Guideline of the American College of Physicians and the American Pain Society (Salem, Oregon: Office for Oregon Health Policy and Research).
(59) van Tulder M, Becker A, Bekkering T, Breen A, del Real MT, Hutchinson A, et al. Chapter 3. European guidelines for the management of acute nonspecific low back pain in primary care. Eur Spine J. 2006;15 Suppl 2:S169−91.
(60) Cutforth G, Peter A, Taenzer P. The Alberta Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Ambassador Program: The Development of a Contextually Relevant, Multidisciplinary Clinical Practice Guideline for Non−specific Low Back Pain: A Review. Physiother Can. 2011;63 (3):278−86.

<PAGE>73