## 참고 문헌
(13) Chou R, Qaseem A, Snow V, Casey D, Cross JT, Jr., Shekelle P, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of low back pain: a joint clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians and the American Pain Society. Ann Intern Med. 2007;147 (7):478–91.
(14) Downie A, Williams CM, Henschke N, Hancock MJ, Ostelo RW, de Vet HC, et al. Red flags to screen for malignancy and fracture in patients with low back pain: systematic review. BMJ. 2013;347:f7095.
(55) Wong JJ, Cote P, Sutton DA, Randhawa K, Yu H, Varatharajan S, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for the noninvasive management of low back pain: A systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) Collaboration. Eur J Pain. 2017;21 (2):201–16.
(56) Chou R, Fu R, Carrino JA, Deyo RA. Imaging strategies for low-back pain: systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet. 2009;373 (9662):463–72.
(57) Chou R, Qaseem A, Owens DK, Shekelle P, Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of P. Diagnostic imaging for low back pain: advice for high-value health care from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2011;154 (3):181–9.
(58) Livingston, C., King, V., Little, A., Pettinari, C., Thielke, A., Gordon, C. (2011). Evidence–Based Clinical Guidelines Project. Evaluation and Management of Low Back Pain: A Clinical Practice Guideline Based on the Joint Practice Guideline of the American College of Physicians and the American Pain Society (Salem, Oregon: Office for Oregon Health Policy and Research).

<PAGE>69