## 참고 문헌

61. Randhawa K, Cote P, Gross DP, Wong JJ, Yu H, Sutton D, et al. The effectiveness of structured patient education for the management of musculoskeletal disorders and injuries of the extremities: a systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) Collaboration. J Can Chiropr Assoc. 2015;59 (4):349-62
62. Sutton D, Gross DP, Cote P, Randhawa K, Yu H, Wong JJ, et al. Multimodal care for the management of musculoskeletal disorders of the elbow, forearm, wrist and hand: a systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) Collaboration. Chiropr Man Therap. 2016;24:8.
63. Southerst D, Yu H, Randhawa K, Cote P, D’Angelo K, Shearer HM, et al. The effectiveness of manual therapy for the management of musculoskeletal disorders of the upper and lower extremities: a systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) Collaboration. Chiropr Man Therap. 2015;23:30.
64. Piper S, Shearer HM, Cote P, Wong JJ, Yu H, Varatharajan S, et al. The effectiveness of soft-tissue therapy for the management of musculoskeletal disorders and injuries of the upper and lower extremities: A systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) collaboration. Man Ther. 2016;21:18-34.
65. D’Angelo K, Sutton D, Cote P, Dion S, Wong JJ, Yu H, et al. The effectiveness of passive physical modalities for the management of soft tissue injuries and neuropathies of the wrist and hand: a systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) collaboration. J Manipulative Physiol Ther. 2015;38 (7):493-506.
66. Menta R, Randhawa K, Cote P, Wong JJ, Yu H, Sutton D, et al. The effectiveness of exercise for the management of musculoskeletal disorders and injuries of the elbow, forearm, wrist, and hand: a systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) collaboration. J Manipulative Physiol Ther. 2015;38 (7):507-20.

<PAGE>83