# 참고 문헌

10. Cote P, Wong JJ, Sutton D, Shearer HM, Mior S, Randhawa K, et al. Management of neck pain and associated disorders: A clinical practice guideline from the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) Collaboration. Eur Spine J. 2016;25 (7):2000–22.
19. Ngo T, Stupar M, Cote P, Boyle E, Shearer H. A study of the test–retest reliability of the self–perceived general recovery and self–perceived change in neck pain questions in patients with recent whiplash–associated disorders. Eur Spine J. 2010;19 (6):957–62.
20. Carroll LJ, Lis A, Weiser S, Torti J. How Well Do You Expect to Recover, and What Does Recovery Mean, Anyway? Qualitative Study of Expectations After a Musculoskeletal Injury. Phys Ther. 2016;96 (6):797–807.
21. Cote P, Hogg–Johnson S, Cassidy JD, Carroll L, Frank JW, Bombardier C. Initial patterns of clinical care and recovery from whiplash injuries: a population–based cohort study. Arch Intern Med. 2005;165 (19):2257–63.
22. Cote P, Hogg–Johnson S, Cassidy JD, Carroll L, Frank JW, Bombardier C. Early aggressive care and delayed recovery from whiplash: isolated finding or reproducible result? Arthritis Rheum. 2007;57 (5):861–8.
23. Southerst D, Nordin MC, Cote P, Shearer HM, Varatharajan S, Yu H, et al. Is exercise effective for the management of neck pain and associated disorders or whiplash–associated disorders? A systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) Collaboration. Spine J. 2016;16 (12):1503–23.
24. Sutton DA, Cote P, Wong JJ, Varatharajan S, Randhawa KA, Yu H, et al. Is multimodal care effective for the management of patients with whiplash–associated disorders or neck pain and associated disorders? A systematic review by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) Collaboration. Spine J. 2016;16 (12):1541–65.
25. Yu H, Cote P, Southerst D, Wong JJ, Varatharajan S, Shearer HM, et al. Does structured patient education improve the recovery and clinical outcomes of patients with neck pain? A systematic review from the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa) Collaboration. Spine J. 2016;16 (12):1524–40.
26. Cassidy JD, Carroll LJ, Cote P, Frank J. Does multidisciplinary rehabilitation benefit whiplash recovery?: results of a population–based incidence cohort study. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2007;32 (1):126–31.
27. Wong JJ, Shearer HM, Mior S, Jacobs C, Cote P, Randhawa K, et al. Are manual therapies, passive physical modalities, or acupuncture effective for the management of patients with whiplash–associated disorders or neck pain and associated disorders? An update of the Bone and Joint Decade Task Force on Neck Pain and Its Associated Disorders by the OPTIMa collaboration. Spine J. 2016;16 (12):1598–630.
28. van Tulder MW, Touray T, Furlan AD, Solway S, Bouter LM, Cochrane Back Review G. Muscle relaxants for nonspecific low back pain: a systematic review within the framework of the cochrane collaboration. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2003;28 (17):1978–92.
29. Wong JJ, Cote P, Ameis A, Varatharajan S, Varatharajan T, Shearer HM, et al. Are non–steroidal anti–inflammatory drugs effective for the management of neck pain and associated disorders, whiplash–associated disorders, or non–specific low back pain? A systematic review of systematic reviews by the Ontario Protocol for Traffic Injury Management (OPTIMa)

<PAGE>48