# 중증열성혈소판감소증후군(SFTS) 진료지침 [의료인용]

15. Ge HH, Wang G, Guo PJ, Zhao J, Zhang S, Xu YL et al. (2022) Coinfections in hospitalized patients with severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome: a retrospective study. J Med Virol.
16. Xu Y, Shao M, Liu N, Tang J, Gu Q, Dong D (2021) Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is a frequent complication in patients with severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome: A retrospective study. Int J Infect Dis 105:646-52.
17. Lu QB, Li H, Zhang PH, Cui N, Yang ZD, Fan YD et al. (2016) Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome Complicated by Co-infection with Spotted Fever Group Rickettsiae, China. Emerg Infect Dis 22(11):1957-60.
18. Yu F, Morita K (2019) Laboratory Diagnosis for SFTS. In: Saijo M, editor. Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome. Singapore: Springer Singapore 173-84.
19. Huang X, Ding S, Jiang X, Pang B, Zhang Q, Li C et al. (2019) Detection of SFTS virus RNA and antibodies in severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome surveillance cases in endemic areas of China. BMC Infect Dis 19(1):476.
20. Hu L, Kong Q, Liu Y, Li J, Bian T, Ma X et al. (2021) Time Course of Severe Fever With Thrombocytopenia Syndrome Virus and Antibodies in Patients by Long-Term Follow-Up Study, China. Front Microbiol 12:744037.
21. Kato Y (2019) Infection Control and Prevention in Hospitals and Household. 197-214.
22. Oh H, Yoo JR, Kim M, Heo ST (2022) Current Status and Infection Control of Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome in Korea. Korean J healthc assoc Infect Control Prev 27(1):18-27.
23. Park S, Kwon JS, Kim J, Kim SM, Jang Y, Kim MC et al. (2018) Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome-associated encephalopathy/encephalitis. Clin Microbiol Infect 24(4):432.e4.
24. Xu Y, Shao M, Liu N, Dong D, Tang J, Gu Q (2021) Clinical feature of severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome(SFTS)-associated encephalitis/encephalopathy:a retrospective study. BMC Infect Dis 21(1):904.
25. Xu Y, Shao M, Liu N, Tang J, Gu Q, Dong D (2021) Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is a frequent complication in patients with severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome: A retrospective study. Int. J. Infect. Dis 105:646-652.
26. Seongman Bae, Hye Jeon Hwang, Mi Young Kim, Min Jae Kim, Yong Pil Chong, Sang-Oh Lee et al. (2020) Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis in Patients With Severe Fever With Thrombocytopenia Syndrome. Clinical Infectious Diseases 70(7):1491-1494.
27. Seo MG, Noh BE, Lee HS, Kim TK, Song BG, Lee HI (2021) Nationwide Temporal and Geographical Distribution of Tick Populations and Phylogenetic Analysis of Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome Virus in Ticks in Korea, 2020. Microorganisms 9:1630.

<PAGE>040