for lung cancer on participants in a randomized controlled trial (NELSON trial). Cancer 2008;113: 396-404.
18. van Klaveren RJ, Oudkerk M, Prokop M, et al. Management of lung nodules detected by volume CT scanning. N Engl J Med 2009;361:2221-9.
19. Pederson JH, Ashraf H, Dirksen A, et al. The Danish randomized lung cancer CT screening trial-overall design and results of the prevalence round. J Thorac Oncol 2009;4:608-14.
20. Blanchon T, Brechot J, Grenier P, et al. Baseline results of the Depiscan study: A French randomized pilot trial of lung cancer screening comparing low dose CT scan (LDCT) and chest X-ray (CXR). Lung Cancer 2007;58:50-8.
21. Infante M, Lutman F, Cavuto S, et al. Lung cancer screening with spiral CTBaseline results of the randomized DANTE trial. Lung Cancer 2008;59:355-63.
22. Infante M, Cavuto S, Lutman FR, et al. A Randomized Study of Lung Cancer Screening with Spiral Computed Tomography: Three-year Results from the DANTE Trial. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine 2009;180:445-53.
23. Lopes Pegna A, Picozzi G, Mascalchi M, et al. Design, recruitment and baseline results of the ITALUNG trial for lung cancer screening with low-dose CT. Lung Cancer 2009;64:34-40.
24. Pastorino U. Early Detection of Lung Cancer. Respiration 2006;73:5-13
25. George PJ. Fluorescence bronchoscopy for the early detection of lung cancer. Thorax 1999;54:180-3.
26. Lam S, Kennedy T, Unger M, Miller YE, Gelmont D, Rusch V, et al. Localization of bronchial intraepithelial neoplastic lesions by fluorescence bronchoscopy. Chest 1998;113:696-702.
27. Haussinger K, Becker H, Stanzel F, Kreuzer A, Schmidt B, Strausz J, et al. Autofluorescence bronchoscopy with white light bronchoscopy compared with white light bronchoscopy alone for the detection of precancerous lesions: a European randomised controlled multicentre trial. Thorax 2005; 60:496-503.
28. Minna JD. Neoplasms of the lung. In: Kasper DL, Braunwald E, Fauci AS, Hauser SL, Longo DL, Jameson JL, editors. Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine. 16 ed: McGraw-Hill Co., Inc; 2005. p. 506-16.
29. Histological typing of lung tumors. Second edition, 1981 (author's transl). Ann Pathol 1981;1:177-91.
30. Lee C, Kang KH, Koh Y, Chang J, Chung HS, Park SK, et al. Characteristics of lung cancer in Korea, 1997. Lung Cancer 2000;30:15-22.
31. In KH, Kwon YS, Oh IJ, Kim KS, Jung MH, Lee KH, et al. Lung cancer patients who are asymptomatic at diagnosis show favorable prognosis: a korean Lung Cancer Registry Study. Lung Cancer 2009;64:232-7.
32. Kim YT, Kim TY, Lee DS, Park SJ, Park JY, Seo SJ, et al. Molecular changes of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and KRAS and their impact on the clinical outcomes in surgically resected adenocarcinoma of the lung. Lung Cancer 2008;59:111-8.
33. Jang TW, Oak CH, Chang HK, Suo SJ, Jung MH. EGFR and KRAS mutations in patients with adenocarcinoma of the lung. Korean J Intern Med 2009;24:48-54.
34. Na II, Rho JK, Choi YJ, Kim CH, Koh JS, Ryoo BY, et al. Clinical features reflect exon sites of EGFR mutations in patients with resected non-small-cell lung cancer. J Korean Med Sci 2007; 22:393-9.
35. Pretreatment evaluation of non-small-cell lung cancer. The American Thoracic Society and The

참고문헌 <PAGE>105