1994;57:1440-5.
280. Barnes JB, Johnson SB, Dahiya RS, Temes RT, Herman TS, Thomas CR Jr. Concomitant weekly cisplatin and thoracic radiotherapy for Pancoast tumors of the lung: pilot experience of the San Antonio Cancer Institute. Am J Clin Oncol 2002;25:90-2.
281. Kwong KF, Edelman MJ, Suntharalingam M, Cooper LB, Gamliel Z, Burrows W, et al. High-dose radiotherapy in trimodality treatment of Pancoast tumors results in high pathologic complete response rates and excellent long-term survival. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2005;129:1250-7.
282. Rusch VW, Giroux DJ, Kraut MJ, Crowley J, Hazuka M, Winton T, et al. Induction chemoradiation and surgical resection for superior sulcus non-small-cell lung carcinomas: long-term results of Southwest Oncology Group Trial 9416 (Intergroup Trial 0160). J Clin Oncol 2007;25:313-8.
283. Urschel JD, Urschel DM, Anderson TM, Antkowiak JG, Takita H. Prognostic implications of pulmonary satellite nodules: are the 1997 staging revisions appropriate? Lung Cancer 1998;21:83-7; discussion 9-91.
284. Rusch VW, Crowley J, Giroux DJ, Goldstraw P, Im JG, Tsuboi M, et al. The IASLC Lung Cancer Staging Project: proposals for the revision of the N descriptors in the forthcoming seventh edition of the TNM classification for lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2007;2:603-12.
285. Andre F, Grunenwald D, Pignon JP, Dujon A, Pujol JL, Brichon PY, et al. Survival of patients with resected N2 non-small-cell lung cancer: evidence for a subclassification and implications. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:2981-9.
286. Robinson LA, Ruckdeschel JC, Wagner H Jr, Stevens CW. Treatment of non-small cell lung cancer-stage IIIA: ACCP evidence-based clinical practice guidelines (2nd edition). Chest 2007;132: 243S-65S.
287. Ruckdeschel JC. Combined modality therapy of non-small cell lung cancer. Semin Oncol 1997;24: 429-39.
288. Goldstraw P, Mannam GC, Kaplan DK, Michail P. Surgical management of non-small-cell lung cancer with ipsilateral mediastinal node metastasis (N2 disease). J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1994;107:19-27; discussion -8.
289. Graham AN, Chan KJ, Pastorino U, Goldstraw P. Systematic nodal dissection in the intrathoracic staging of patients with non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1999;117:246-51.
290. Ginsberg RJ. Multimodality therapy for stage IIIA (N2) lung cancer. An overview. Chest 1993;103: 356S-9S.
291. Inoue M, Sawabata N, Takeda S, Ohta M, Ohno Y, Maeda H. Results of surgical intervention for p-stage IIIA (N2) non-small cell lung cancer: acceptable prognosis predicted by complete resection in patients with single N2 disease with primary tumor in the upper lobe. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2004;127:1100-6.
292. Keller SM, Vangel MG, Wagner H, Schiller JH, Herskovic A, Komaki R, et al. Prolonged survival in patients with resected non-small cell lung cancer and single-level N2 disease. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2004;128:130-7.
293. Detterbeck F. What to do with "Surprise" N2?: intraoperative management of patients with non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2008;3:289-302.
294. Maggi G, Casadio C, Mancuso M, Oliaro A, Cianci R, Ruffini E. Resection and radical lymphadenectomy for lung cancer: prognostic significance of lymphatic metastases. Int Surg 1990;75:

<PAGE>122 폐암 진료지침