430. Rosen LS, Abdi E, Davis ID, Gutheil J, Schnell FM, Zalcberg J, et al. Palifermin reduces the incidence of oral mucositis in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with fluorouracil-based chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:5194-200.
431. Schmidt E, Thoennissen NH, Rudat A, Bieker R, Schliemann C, Mesters RM, et al. Use of palifermin for the prevention of high-dose methotrexate-induced oral mucositis. Ann Oncol 2008;19:1644-9.
432. Mahood DJ, Dose AM, Loprinzi CL, Veeder MH, Athmann LM, Therneau TM, et al. Inhibition of fluorouracil-induced stomatitis by oral cryotherapy. J Clin Oncol 1991;9:449-52.
433. Rocke LK, Loprinzi CL, Lee JK, Kunselman SJ, Iverson RK, Finck G, et al. A randomized clinical trial of two different durations of oral cryotherapy for prevention of 5-fluorouracil-related stomatitis. Cancer 1993;72:2234-8.
434. Cascinu S, Fedeli A, Fedeli SL, Catalano G. Oral cooling (cryotherapy), an effective treatment for the prevention of 5-fluorouracil-induced stomatitis. Eur J Cancer B Oral Oncol 1994;30B:234-6.
435. Rougier P, Bugat R, Douillard JY, Culine S, Suc E, Brunet P, et al. Phase II study of irinotecan in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer in chemotherapy-naive patients and patients pretreated with fluorouracil-based chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 1997;15:251-60.
436. Viele CS. Overview of chemotherapy-induced diarrhea. Semin Oncol Nurs 2003;19(4 Suppl 3):2-5.
437. Richardson G, Dobish R. Chemotherapy induced diarrhea. J Oncol Pharm Pract 2007;13:181-98.
438. Schrijvers DL. Extravasation: a dreaded complication of chemotherapy. Ann Oncol 2003;14(Suppl 3):iii26-30.
439. Dorr RT. Antidotes to vesicant chemotherapy extravasations. Blood Rev 1990;4:41-60.
440. Ascherman JA, Knowles SL, Attkiss K. Docetaxel (taxotere) extravasation: a report of five cases with treatment recommendations. Ann Plast Surg 2000;45:438-41.
441. Berghammer P, Pohnl R, Baur M, Dittrich C. Docetaxel extravasation. Support Care Cancer 2001;9: 131-4.
442. Freifeld AG, Walsh T, Marshall D, Gress J, Steinberg SM, Hathorn J, et al. Monotherapy for fever and neutropenia in cancer patients: a randomized comparison of ceftazidime versus imipenem. J Clin Oncol 1995;13:165-76.
443. Cometta A, Calandra T, Gaya H, Zinner SH, de Bock R, Del Favero A, et al. Monotherapy with meropenem versus combination therapy with ceftazidime plus amikacin as empiric therapy for fever in granulocytopenic patients with cancer. The International Antimicrobial Therapy Cooperative Group of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer and the Gruppo Italiano Malattie Ematologiche Maligne dell'Adulto Infection Program. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 1996; 40:1108-15.
444. Bow EJ, Rotstein C, Noskin GA, Laverdiere M, Schwarer AP, Segal BH, et al. A randomized, open-label, multicenter comparative study of the efficacy and safety of piperacillin-tazobactam and cefepime for the empirical treatment of febrile neutropenic episodes in patients with hematologic malignancies. Clin Infect Dis 2006;43:447-59.
445. Flaherty JP, Waitley D, Edlin B, George D, Arnow P, O'Keefe P, et al. Multicenter, randomized trial of ciprofloxacin plus azlocillin versus ceftazidime plus amikacin for empiric treatment of febrile neutropenic patients. Am J Med 1989;87:278S-82S.
446. Cometta A, Zinner S, de Bock R, Calandra T, Gaya H, Klastersky J, et al. Piperacillin-tazobactam plus amikacin versus ceftazidime plus amikacin as empiric therapy for fever in granulocytopenic
폐암 진료지침
<PAGE>132