87. patients with lung cancer without clinical evidence of metastases. Chest 1995;108:1264-71.
88. Salvatierra A, Baamonde C, Llamas JM, Cruz F, Lopez-Pujol J. Extrathoracic staging of bronchogenic carcinoma. Chest 1990;97:1052-8.
89. Michel F, Soler M, Imhof E, Perruchoud AP. Initial staging of non-small cell lung cancer: value of routine radioisotope bone scanning. Thorax 1991;46:469-73.
90. Quinn DL, Ostrow LB, Porter DK, Shelton DK Jr, Jackson DE Jr. Staging of non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma. Relationship of the clinical evaluation to organ scans. Chest 1986;89:270-5.
91. Earnest Ft, Ryu JH, Miller GM, Luetmer PH, Forstrom LA, Burnett OL, et al. Suspected non-small cell lung cancer: incidence of occult brain and skeletal metastases and effectiveness of imaging for detection--pilot study. Radiology 1999;211:137-45.
92. Bury T, Barreto A, Daenen F, Barthelemy N, Ghaye B, Rigo P. Fluorine-18 deoxyglucose positron emission tomography for the detection of bone metastases in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Eur J Nucl Med 1998;25:1244-7.
93. 정재호, 박무석, 한창훈, 문진욱, 김영삼, 김세규, et al. 폐암의 골전이에서 99mTc MDP 골주사와 전신 18FDG PET의 비교. 결핵 및 호흡기질환 2003;55:280-6.
94. Gress FG, Savides TJ, Sandler A, Kesler K, Conces D, Cummings O, et al. Endoscopic ultrasonography, fine-needle aspiration biopsy guided by endoscopic ultrasonography, and computed tomography in the preoperative staging of non-small-cell lung cancer: a comparison study. Ann Intern Med 1997;127(8 Pt 1):604-12.
95. Wallace MB, Silvestri GA, Sahai AV, Hawes RH, Hoffman BJ, Durkalski V, et al. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration for staging patients with carcinoma of the lung. Ann Thorac Surg 2001;72:1861-7.
96. Gdeedo A, Van Schil P, Corthouts B, Van Mieghem F, Van Meerbeeck J, Van Marck E. Prospective evaluation of computed tomography and mediastinoscopy in mediastinal lymph node staging. Eur Respir J 1997;10:1547-51.
97. Hammoud ZT, Anderson RC, Meyers BF, Guthrie TJ, Roper CL, Cooper JD, et al. The current role of mediastinoscopy in the evaluation of thoracic disease. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1999;118:894-9.
98. Mountain CF. Revisions in the International System for Staging Lung Cancer. Chest 1997;111:1710-7.
99. Goldstraw P, Crowley J, Chansky K, Giroux DJ, Groome PA, Rami-Porta R, et al. The IASLC Lung Cancer Staging Project: proposals for the revision of the TNM stage groupings in the forthcoming (seventh) edition of the TNM Classification of malignant tumours. J Thorac Oncol 2007;2:706-14.
100. Detterbeck FC, Boffa DJ, Tanoue LT. The new lung cancer staging system. Chest 2009;136:260-71.
101. AJCC. Lung. In: Beahrs OH, Hensen DE, Hutter RVP, Myers MH, editors. Manual for staging of Cancer. 4 ed. Philadelphia: JB Lippincott; 1992. p. 115-22.
102. UICC. Lung tumors (ICDO-0162). In: Hermanek P, Sobin LH, editors. TNM Classification of Malignant Tumors. 4 ed. Berlin: Springer-Verlag; 1987. p. 69-73.
103. Whitehouse M. A policy framework for commissioning cancer services. Bmj 1995;310:1425-6.
104. BTS guidelines: guidelines on the selection of patients with lung cancer for surgery. Thorax 2001;56:89-108.
105. Damhuis RA, Schutte PR. Resection rates and postoperative mortality in 7,899 patients with lung cancer. Eur Respir J 1996;9:7-10.
106. Fleisher LA, Beckman JA, Brown KA, Calkins H, Chaikof E, Fleischmann KE, et al. ACC/AHA 2006

참고 문헌
<PAGE>109