106. Fleisher LA, Beckman JA, Brown KA, Calkins H, Chaikof E, Fleischmann KE, et al. ACC/AHA 2006 guideline update on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation for noncardiac surgery: focused update on perioperative beta-blocker therapy: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to Update the 2002 Guidelines on Perioperative Cardiovascular Evaluation for Noncardiac Surgery): developed in collaboration with the American Society of Echocardiography, American Society of Nuclear Cardiology, Heart Rhythm Society, Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and Society for Vascular Medicine and Biology. Circulation 2006;113:2662-74.
107. Wyser C, Stulz P, Soler M, Tamm M, Muller-Brand J, Habicht J, et al. Prospective evaluation of an algorithm for the functional assessment of lung resection candidates. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999;159(5 Pt 1):1450-6.
108. Yellin A, Simansky D. Physiologic evaluation of pulmonary function in the candidate for lung resection. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1994;108:595.
109. Ferguson MK, Little L, Rizzo L, Popovich KJ, Glonek GF, Leff A, et al. Diffusing capacity predicts morbidity and mortality after pulmonary resection. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1988;96:894-900.
110. Bolliger CT, Wyser C, Roser H, Soler M, Perruchoud AP. Lung scanning and exercise testing for the prediction of postoperative performance in lung resection candidates at increased risk for complications. Chest 1995;108:341-8.
111. Markos J, Mullan BP, Hillman DR, Musk AW, Antico VF, Lovegrove FT, et al. Preoperative assessment as a predictor of morbidity and mortality after lung resection. Am Rev Respir Dis 1989;139:902-10.
112. Nakahara K, Ohno K, Hashimoto J, Miyoshi S, Maeda H, Matsumura A, et al. Prediction of postoperative respiratory failure in patients undergoing lung resection for lung cancer. Ann Thorac Surg 1988;46:549-52.
113. Bolliger CT, Jordan P, Soler M, Stulz P, Gradel E, Skarvan K, et al. Exercise capacity as a predictor of postoperative complications in lung resection candidates. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1995;151:1472-80.
114. Olsen GN, Weiman DS, Bolton JW, Gass GD, McLain WC, Schoonover GA, et al. Submaximal invasive exercise testing and quantitative lung scanning in the evaluation for tolerance of lung resection. Chest 1989;95:267-73.
115. Ninan M, Sommers KE, Landreneau RJ, Weyant RJ, Tobias J, Luketich JD, et al. Standardized exercise oximetry predicts postpneumonectomy outcome. Ann Thorac Surg 1997;64:328-32; discussion 32-3.
116. Edwards JG, Duthie DJ, Waller DA. Lobar volume reduction surgery: a method of increasing the lung cancer resection rate in patients with emphysema. Thorax 2001;56:791-5.
117. Perez CA, Pajak TF, Rubin P, Simpson JR, Mohiuddin M, Brady LW, et al. Long-term observations of the patterns of failure in patients with unresectable non-oat cell carcinoma of the lung treated with definitive radiotherapy. Report by the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group. Cancer 1987;59:1874-81.
118. Lung Cancer Disease Site Group and Cancer Care Ontario Practice Guidelines Initiative (2000). Altered fractionation of radical radiation therapy in the management of unresectable non-small cell lung cancer. Cancer Care Ontario Practice Guidelines Initiative. Ontario 2000.
119. Sause W, Kolesar P, Taylor SI, Johnson D, Livingston R, Komaki R, et al. Final results of phase III trial in regionally advanced unresectable non-small cell lung cancer: Radiation Therapy Oncology

<PAGE>110
폐암 진료지침