# Results
Over a two-year period, the rates of death, hospital admissions and emergency visits and the mean length of hospital stay were not significantly different in the two groups.

**Author/Title/Reference/Yr:** Nichol KL, Baken L, Wuorenma J, Nelson A, 1999, "The health and economic benefits associated with pneumococcal vaccination of elderly persons with chronic lung disease", Archives of Internal Medicine, vol. 159, no. 20, pp. 2437-2442. Ref ID: 216
**N=:** Total N=1,898 participants Location=Staff-model health maintenance organisation (covering 21 clinics) -Minneapolis-St Paul. Sites=21 clinics
**Research Design:** Retrospective cohort study- based on the Staff-model health maintenance organisation database (covering 21 clinics).
**Aim:** To assess the association of pneumococcal vaccination with hospitalisations for pneumonia, influenza, and death.
**Operational Definition:** Using administrative data, hospitalisations for pneumonia & influenza, and death were compared for vaccinated and unvaccinated subjects using multivariate models to control for subjects baseline demographic and health characteristics.
**Population:**
- All members of the staff-model health maintenance organisation who were: >65 yrs
- A diagnosis of chronic lung disease (ICD-9-CM)
- During the preceding 12 months (01/10/1992-30/09/1993)
- Who were alive on the first day of the outcome period
- Who were continuously enrolled throughout the 12-month baseline period
- Vaccinated participants N=1,280 (vaccinated before 11/15/93 N=843; vaccinated after 11/15/93).
- Not vaccinated participants N=618
**Interventions and Comparisons:** Association of pneumococcal vaccination with:
**Outcomes:**
- Hospitalisations for pneumonia, Influenza, Death from all causes
- The additive benefits of combined influenza and pneumococcal vaccination
**Characteristics:** Two influenza seasons were taken into account. The first influenza season was through to 30,03,94 and second influenza season was 15,11,94 through to 30,03,95. Baseline characteristics of the study participants according to pneumococcal vaccination status was presented in the following format only:
- Mean Age yrs Vaccinated before 15,11,93/vaccinated after 15,11,93/not vaccinated=73,6 yrs/74.1 yrs/74.9 yrs
- Male % Vaccinated before 15,11,93/vaccinated after 15,11,93/not vaccinated=50.5/49.9/45.6
- History of pneumonia % Vaccinated before 15,11,93/vaccinated after 15,11,93/not vaccinated=17,3/14.2/20.4
- Influenza vaccination % Vaccinated before 15,11,93/vaccinated after 15,11,93/not vaccinated=80.3/78.5/56.0

### Results
- Pneumococcal vaccination was associated with A 43% reduction (adjusted risk ratio [RR], 0.57; 0.57; p=0,005) in the number of hospitalisations for pneumonia and influenza.
- A 29% reduction (adjusted RR, 0.71; p=0,008) in the risk for death from all causes.
- For the control outcome of nonpneumonia hospitalisations, the rates did not differ significantly between the 2 groups (adjusted RR,0,91; 95% CI, 0,77~1,07; p=0,24).
- During the 2 influenza seasons included in the study, the effects of influenza vaccination were additive to those of pneumococcal vaccination. Among persons who had received both vaccinations, there was a 72% reduction (adjusted RR, 0.28; 95% CI, 0,14~0,58; p<0,001) in the number of hospitalisations for pneumonia and influenza and an 82% reduction (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 0,18; 95% CI, 0,11~0,31; p<0,001) in the risk of death when compared with those who had received neither vaccination. There was no evidence for interaction between the 2 vaccinations (influenza and pneumococcal vaccinations) for either outcome (p=0,96 and p=0,59, respectively).

<PAGE>146