### 3) 가군 환자에서 흡입속효성기관지확장제를 사용 중 급성 악화를 경험하거나 mMRC 2단계 이상의 호흡곤란이 지속되는 경우에는 흡입지속성항콜린제 또는 흡입지속성베타-2작용제(흡입 24시간지속성베타-2작용제 포함)를 사용한다(근거수준: 낮음, 권고강도: 강함).

#### 근거표 3-1: LAMA vs SAMA

| 연구수 | 연구설계 | 비뚤림 위험 | 비일관성 | 비직접성 | 비정밀 | 출판 비뚤림 | 근거수준 |
| :----- | :------- | :---------- | :------- | :------- | :------- | :---------- | :------- |
| 2      | 무작위대조군 | 없음        | 없음     | 있음     | 있음     | 없음        | 낮음     |

PICO 및 근거표

**Author/Title/Reference/yr**
Vincken W, van Noord J, Greefhorst A, et al. Improved health outcomes in patients with COPD during 1 yr's treatment with Tiotropium. Eur Respir J 2002: 19: 209-216 Dutch / Belgian Tiotropium Study Group

**N= / Research Design.**
N=535 Duration=1 yr Location=29 sites in Netherlands and Belgium
Two one yr studies incorporating a randomised double blind, double dummy parallel group design. Pts from the Van Noord et al 2000 trial continued into a 1 yr RCT and the current study by Vincken et al 2002 describes the combined results of the Van Noord trial and a second large multi centre 1 yr trial.

**Aim**
Health outcome evaluation over a 1 yr period

**Operational Definition**
FEV₁<65% of the predicted normal value and <70% of FVC

**Population**
COPD (Asthma excluded)

**Intervention**
Tiotropium 18 μg once daily dry powder capsule inhaled via a pharmaceutical company device

**Characteristics**
- Short and long acting beta agonists and inhaled anticholinergic medications were not permitted.
- Concomitant use of theophyllines & inhaled steroids were allowed.
- Salbutamol MDI 100 μg as needed for acute symptom relief.
- Mean age=64 yrs
- Sex=85% Male
- Ethnic origin=Not detailed.

**Results**

**Spirometry**
- Tiotropium was superior to Ipratropium (p<0.05) at all time points on all test days except for the first 2 h following the first dose and up to 1 h after the dose 1 wk later.
- At the end of 1 yr, trough FEV₁ was 120 mL above day 1 baseline for pts receiving Tiotropium, and had declined by 30 mL for those receiving Ipratropium (difference of 150 mL between groups, p<0.001 at all time points).
- FVC paralleled the FEV₁ results.
- Spirometry results were consistent across centres.

**PEFR**
- Throughout the 1 yr treatment, morning and evening PEFR improved significantly more in the Tiotropium group than in the Ipratropium group (p<0.01 at all wkly intervals).
- Tiotropium significantly improved all three components of the TDI, as well as the focal score, on all test days compared to Ipratropium (p<0.05).
- Proportion of patients achieving a clinically meaningful difference in TDI score (improvement ≥1 unit) at 1 year was significantly greater tiotropium group (31%) than the ipratropium groups (18%, p=0.004)

**Use of as needed (rescue) Salbutamol**
- On average, pts receiving Tiotropium self-administered approx four fewer inhalations of Salbutamol/wk-1 compared to pts receiving Ipratropium (p<0.05 for 40 to 52 wks).

**Health Related Quality of Life**
- Over the 1 yr treatment period, the SGRQ total score decreased (improved) in both groups, but gradually returned towards baseline in the Ipratropium group. Improvements were maintained over the yr in the Tiotropium group, and were superior to Ipratropium (difference of 3.30±1.13, p<0.05).
- Proportion of patients achieving a clinically meaningful improvement of 4 units in SGRQ total score

<PAGE>98