mastery: 0.01 (95% CI: 20,20 to 0,24); and emotional function: 0,02 (95% CI: 20,20 to 0,24).
We found that in patients with COPD, use of regular short-acting inhaled b-agonists resulted in twice as much b-agonist use without physiologic or clinical benefit as did use on an as needed basis.

2.  안정 시에는 흡입속효성보다는 흡입지속성기관지확장제를 권장한다(근거수준: 높음, 권고강도: 강함).

근거표 2-1: LAMA vs SAMA

| 연구수 | 연구설계 | 비뚤림 위험 | 비일관성 | 비직접성 | 비정밀 | 출판 비뚤림 | 근거수준 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 2 | 무작위대조군 | 없음 | 없음 | 없음 | 없음 | 없음 | 높음 |

PICO 및 근거표

**Author/Title/Reference/yr**
Vincken W, van Noord J, Greefhorst A, et al. Improved health outcomes in patients with COPD during 1 yr's treatment with Tiotropium. Eur Respir J 2002: 19: 209-216 Dutch / Belgian Tiotropium Study Group

**N=**
N=535 Duration=1 yr Location=29 sites in Netherlands and Belgium

**Research design**
Two one yr studies incorporating a randomised double blind, double dummy parallel group design. Pts from the Van Noord et al 2000 trial continued into a 1yr RCT and the current study by Vincken et al 2002 describes the combined results of the Van Noord trial and a second large multi centre 1 yr trial.

**Aim**
Health outcome evaluation over a 1 yr period

**Operational definition**
FEV₁<65% of the predicted normal value and <70% of FVC

**Population**
COPD (Asthma excluded)

**Intervention**
Tiotropium 18 μg once daily dry powder capsule inhaled via a pharmaceutical company device

**Characteristics**
- Short and long acting beta agonists and inhaled anticholinergic medications were not permitted.
- Concomitant use of theophyllines & inhaled steroids were allowed.
- Salbutamol MDI 100 μg as needed for acute symptom relief.
- Mean age=64 yrs
- Sex=85% Male
- Ethnic origin=Not detailed.

**Results**
Spirometry
- Tiotropium was superior to Ipratropium (p<0.05) at all time points on all test days except for the first 2 h following the first dose and up to 1 h after the dose 1 wk later.
- At the end of 1 yr, trough FEV₁ was 120 mL above day 1 baseline for pts receiving Tiotropium, and had declined by 30 mL for those receiving Ipratropium (difference of 150 mL between groups, p<0,001 at all time points).
- FVC paralleled the FEV₁ results.
- Spirometry results were consistent across centres.
PEFR
- Throughout the 1 yr treatment, morning and evening PEFR improved significantly more in the Tiotropium group than in the Ipratropium group (p<0,01 at all wkly intervals).
Dyspnoea
- Tiotropium significantly improved all three components of the TDI, as well as the focal score, on all test days compared to Ipratropium (p<0,05).
- Proportion of patients achieving a clinically meaningful difference in TDI score (improvement ≥1 unit) at 1 year was significantly greater tiotropium group (31%) than the ipratropium groups (18%, p=0,004)
Use of as needed (rescue) Salbutamol
- On average, pts receiving Tiotropium self-administered approx four fewer inhalations of Salbutamol/wk-1 compared to pts receiving Ipratropium (p<0,05 for 40 to 52 wks).

<PAGE>94