PICO 및 근거표

#### Search method
We identified trials using the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of trials, which is derived from systematic searches of bibliographic databases including the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, AMED, and PsycINFO, and handsearching of respiratory journals and meeting abstracts (see the Airways Group Module for further details). All records in the Specialised Register coded as 'COPD' were searched using the following terms: (tiotropium or spiriva) AND (((budesonide or fluticasone or beclomethasone or mometasone or steroid* or corticosteroid*) AND (formoterol or salmeterol or indacterol or (beta* and agonist*))) or (symbicort or viani or seretide or advair or foster or fostair or inuvair or combination*)). The search was conducted in March 2010.

#### N
1,323 participants, 1 studies

#### Aim
To assess the relative effects of inhaled combination therapy and tiotropium on patients with COPD

#### Type of studies
We included only randomised controlled trials with a parallel group design comparing the interventions. Studies were not excluded on the basis of blinding.

#### Type of participants
Populations with a diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. We only included studies where an external set of criteria had been used to screen participants for this condition

#### Type of intervention
1. Inhaled combination corticosteroid and long-acting beta2-agonist (such as fluticasone/salmeterol, budesonide/formoterol,beclomethasone/formoterol).
2. Inhaled tiotropium bromide

#### Type of outcome measures
Primary outcomes
1. Mortality (all cause)
2. Hospital admission
3. Exacerbations; all cause, requiring short courses of oral corticosteroids or antibiotics as defined by agreed criteria
4. Pneumonia
Secondary outcomes
1. Quality of life (measured with a validated scale for COPD, e.g. St George's Respiratory Questionnaire, Chronic Respiratory Disease Questionnaire)
2. Symptoms
3. Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV₁)
4. Non-fatal serious adverse events
5. Adverse events
6. Withdrawals

#### Result
One large two year trial (INSPIRE) and two smaller, shorter trials (Dawber 2005; SCO40034) were found. The results from these trials were not pooled. The number of withdrawals from each arm of the INSPIRE trial was large and imbalanced and outcome data was not collected for patients who withdrew, raising concerns about the reliability of data from this study. In INSPIRE, there were more deaths on tiotropium than on fluticasone/salmeterol (Peto OR 0,55; 95% CI 0,33 to 0,93). This was a statistically significant difference, however the number of withdrawals from each of the arms was eleven times larger than the observed number of deaths for participants on fluticasone/salmeterol and seven times larger for participants on tiotropium. There were more all cause hospital admissions in patients on fluticasone/salmeterol than those on tiotropium in INSPIRE (Peto OR 1,32; 95% CI 1,04 to 1,67). There was no statistically significant difference in hospital admissions due to exacerbations, the primary outcome of INSPIRE. There was no significant difference in exacerbations in patients on fluticasone/salmeterol compared to tiotropium when compared as either an odds ratio or a rate ratio (mean number of exacerbations per patient per year). Exacerbations requiring treatment with oral corticosteroids were less frequent in patients on fluticasone/salmeterol (Rate Ratio 0,81; 95% CI 0,67 to 0,99). Conversely exacerbations requiring treatment with antibiotics were more frequent in patients treated with fluticasone/salmeterol (Rate Ratio 1,19; 95% CI 1,02 to 1,38). There were more cases of pneumonia in patients on fluticasone/salmeterol than those on tiotropium (Peto OR 2,13; 95% CI 1,33 to 3,40). Confidence intervals for these outcomes do not reflect the additional uncertainty arising from unknown outcome data for patients who withdrew.

<PAGE>114