**Participants**
6) before study, recent COPD exacerbations or recent corticosteroid use 6 patients withdrew after randomisation had occurred with 3 of these cases attributed to adverse effects during the Roflumilast treatment arm

## Interventions
Run in: 2 weeks with placebo.
1) Roflumilast 500 μg once daily. 2) Placebo once daily.
Concomitant medication
- Short acting anticholinergic: "Patients withheld salbutamol, smoking and caffeine-containing beverages for 6 h and anticholinergic agents for 8 h before lung function measurements."
- Short acting β2 agonist: As rescue medication and available to all.
- Corticosteroid: None
- Long acting β2 bronchodilator: None.

## Outcomes
Primary Outcomes: Reduction in the percentage of sputum neutrophils.
Secondary Outcomes: FEV1, absolute number of sputum neutrophils, other inflammatory cell numbers and percentages in sputum, markers of activation of inflammatory cells (IL-8, neutrophil elastase, lactoferrin and ECP), markers of microvascular leakage and systemic markers of inflammation

## Notes
Adverse events are grouped within categories and can not be separated for data extraction

## Risk of bias
### Bias
| | Authors' judgement | Support for judgement |
|---|---|---|
| Allocation concealment (selection bias) | Low risk | Through a concealed computer generated randomisation list, |
| Randomised? | Low risk | Randomised to receive either roflumilast 500 μg or placebo. |
| Method of Randomisation described? | Low risk | "were randomised to receive either roflumilast 500 μg or placebo once daily for 4 weeks by means of a concealed computer generated randomisation list." |
| Blinding? | Low risk | Double blinded. |
| Method of Blinding described? | High risk | Six patients dropped out of the study during treatment of the following reasons: withdrawal of consent (n=1), exacerbation of COPD requiring additional treatment (n=2), and adverse events to the study medication (n=3). |
| Description of Withdrawals and Drop outs? | Low risk | No information available. |

### Baseline profile:
Anticholinergic use Unclear risk No information available.
β2 agonist use Unclear risk No information available.
Corticosteroid use Unclear risk No information available.

| Outcome or subgroup title | Statistical method | Effect size |
|---|---|---|
| FEV1 | Mean Difference (IV, Fixed, 95% CI) | 79.50 [35.43, 123.57] |
| Adverse effects | | |
| No of patients experiencing AEs | Odds Ratio (M-H, Fixed, 95% CI) | 3.05 [0.95, 9.75] |
| Withdrawals due to AEs | Odds Ratio (M-H, Fixed, 95% CI) | 7.59 [0.38, 152.19] |
| Non-fatal serious AEs | Odds Ratio (M-H, Fixed, 95% CI) | 0.0 [0.0, 0.0] |

Author, year Bredenbroker D, 2002
Title Safety of once-daily roflumilast, a new, orally active, selective phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor, in patients with COPD.
Methods Parallel group study.
- Randomisation: Randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled trial
- Trial duration: 26 weeks.
- Intention-to-treat analysis: Stated.

<PAGE>131