* Corticosteroid: None
* Long acting β2 bronchodilator: None.
* Long acting anticholinergics: None

## Outcomes
Primary Outcomes: mean (least-squares mean adjusted for covariates (LSMean)) change in postbronchodilator FEV1 from baseline to each postrandomization visit
Secondary Outcomes: LSMean change in prebronchodilator FEV1 from baseline to each postrandomization visit, change in other lung function measures, time to COPD exacerbation, the proportion of patients experiencing an exacerbation, and time to study withdrawal

## Risk of bias
### Bias
Allocation concealment (selection bias) Unclear risk
- Support for judgement: No information available.
Randomised? Low risk
- Support for judgement: Randomised to receive either roflumilast 500 μg or placebo.
Method of Randomisation described? Unclear risk
- Support for judgement: No information available.
Blinding? Low risk
- Support for judgement: Double blinded.
Method of Blinding described? Unclear risk
- Support for judgement: No information available.
Description of Withdrawals and Drop outs? Low risk
- Support for judgement: Described in Figure 1. (discontinuation 41 & major protocol violation 44 in Roflumilast group, and discontinuation 18 & major protocol violation 30 in placebo group)

## PICO 및 근거표
### Baseline profile:
Anticholinergic use Unclear risk No information available.
β2 agonist use Unclear risk No information available.
Corticosteroid use Unclear risk No information available.

| Outcome or subgroup title | Statistical method | Effect size |
|---|---|---|
| Post-bronchodilator FEV1 | | |
| 4 week | LS Mean Difference (95% CI) | 79 [48, 110] |
| 8 week | LS Mean Difference (95% CI) | 81 [48, 114] |
| 12 week | LS Mean Difference (95% CI) | 61 [24, 99 ] |
| Post-bronchodilator FVC | LS Mean Difference (95% CI) | 97 [55, 138] |
| PEF | LS Mean Difference (95% CI) | 104 [59, 149] |
| Adverse effects | | |
| Withdrawals due to AEs | Hazard Ratio (95% CI) | 2.35 [1.32-4.18] |

Author, year Grootendorst DC, 2007
Title Reduction in sputum neutrophil and eosinophil numbers by the PDE4 inhibitor roflumilast in patients with COPD. Thorax 2007;62(12):1081-7.
Methods Crossover group study.
- Randomisation: Randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled trial
- Trial duration: Two 4-week treatment periods. Washout period of 4 to 6 weeks between treatments
- Intention-to-treat analysis: Not stated.
Participants
1) Setting: Not stated.
2) Participants: 38
3) Baseline characteristics: Mean age: 63.1 years, 76% male, mean FEV1% predicted of 61%, mean smoking history of 40 pack years. 53% current smokers
4) Inclusion criteria: Aged 45 to 74 years with history of COPD for at least 1 year. FEV1/FVC≤0.7 with smoking history >10 pack years. Pre-bronchodilator reversibility less than 12% or 200 mL and a post-bronchodilator FEV1 between 35% and 75% of predicted. Sputum neutrophilia (≥45% non-squamous cells) and no exacerbation or upper respiratory tract infection during the 4 weeks before the start of the study
5) Exclusion criteria: asthma, poorly controlled COPD needing hospital visit 6 weeks

<PAGE>130