Death rates did not differ between treatment groups (P=0,59)

**Author/Title/Reference/Yr:** Scanlon, P. D., Connett, J. E., Waller, L. A., Altose, M. D., Bailey, W. C., Buist, A. S., & Tashkin, D. P. 2000, "Smoking cessation and lung function in mild-to-moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - The Lung Health Study", American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, vol. 161, no. 2, pp. 381-390. Ref ID: 166
**N=:** N=3926 smokers (3818 analysed results). Duration=5 years. Location=North America, Centres=10
**Research Design:** Prospective RCT
**Aim:** To quantify the long-term benefit of smoking cessation and establish the predictive value of characteristics.
**Operational Definition:** Screening spirometry of FEV1/FVC ratio <0,75 and an FEV1% predicted 50-90% of the value for their age, height, sex and race. Operational definitions provided for "sustained quitters (Q)" and "continuing smokers (S)" and "intermittent quitters (I)"
**Population:** Mild to moderate COPD
**Intervention:** Intensive, long term smoking cessation program (special intervention, or SI) Participants in the SI group were further randomised to use either:
1. Inhaled ipratropium (SI-A group)
2. Identical placebo administered by MDI (SI-P group)
**Comparison:** Usual care (UC)
**Outcomes:** Lung function measured over 5 yrs Annual health questionnaires
**Characteristics:** Mean age - 49 yrs Age range - 35 - 60 yrs Sex - 36% female
**Results:**
Results: 34% SI-P quit smoking Yr1 vs 9% UC
37% SI-P quit smoking Yr 5 vs 21% UC
22% remained abstinent without relapse from Yr1 to Yr 5 (sustained quitters) vs 5% UC
Participants who stopped smoking experienced an improvement in FEV1 in the year after quitting (an average of 47 mL or 2% pred).
The subsequent rate of decline in FEV1 among sustained quitters was half the rate among continuing smokers, 31 +/- 48 vs 62 +/- 55 mL or 0,27% pred/yr (mean +/- SD), comparable to that of never-smokers.
In contrast, continuing smokers showed a more rapid rate of decline in FEV1, both during the 1 yr and between Yr 1 and Yr 5. At the Yr 1 visit, FEV1 had decreased by 49 mL or 0,74% pred. Between Yr 1 and Yr 5, FEV1 decreased by 62 +/- 55 mL/yr, twice the rate observed in sustained quitters (p<0,001).
Participants who quit during the first yr and then relapsed after Yr 1 showed a 1.6 +/- 5% decline in FEV1% pred after relapsing (p<0,001). Those participants who quit smoking after the first yr showed a 1.6 +/- 5,6% improvement in FEV1 % pred after quitting (p<0,001), which was also comparable to the benefit observed in SI-P quitters at Yr 1.
Predictors of change in lung function included: responsiveness to beta agonists/baseline FEV1/methacholine reactivity/age/sex/race and baseline smoking rate.
Respiratory symptoms were not predictive of changes in lung function.
**Conclusions:**
Among those who quit smoking, the annual rate of decline in FEV1 over 4 yr was half that observed among those who continued smoking (31 vs 62 mL/yr). This rate of decline among quitters was comparable to published rates for decline in FEV1 in healthy never-smokers.
Smokers with airflow obstruction benefit from quitting despite previous heavy smoking, advanced age, poor baseline lung function, or airway hyper responsiveness.

PICO 및 근거표

<PAGE>148