### Participants
1.  Setting: 246 centres in ten countries.
2.  Participants: 1,513 (Roflumilast 500 μg: 760, Placebo: 753)
3.  Baseline characteristics: Mean age: 64 years, 71% male. Post bronchodilator FEV₁ 37.6% predicted. Average of 47 pack years. 48% current smokers.
4.  Inclusion criteria: former or current smokers with at least a 20 pack-year history. Aged ≥40 years. Post-bronchodilator FEV₁/FVC≤0.7. Chronic cough and sputum production. Post-bronchodilator FEV₁<50% predicted. At least one recorded COPD exacerbation requiring systemic glucocorticosteroids or treatment in hospital in previous year.
5.  Exclusion criteria: available in the online web appendix (pg11)
6.  Total number of participant withdrawals: 264 (34%) and 234 (31%) from treatment and control groups respectively
    Run in: 4 weeks with placebo.

### Interventions
1.  Roflumilast 500 μg once daily.
2.  Placebo once daily.
    Concomitant medication
    -   Short acting anticholinergic: 31% of those in the roflumilast group and 32% on placebo.
    -   Short acting β2 agonist: "Patients could use short acting β2 agonists as needed".
    -   Corticosteroid: None.
    -   Long acting β2 bronchodilator: "Eligible patients were stratified according to their use of long acting β2 agonists and smoking status." Roflumilast 49%, placebo 51%".

### Outcomes
Primary Outcomes: Mean change in pre-bronchodilator FEV₁ from baseline to each post-randomisation visit during the treatment period. Mean rate of COPD exacerbations requiring oral or parenteral glucocorticosteroids or requiring hospitalisation or leading to death, per patient per year
Secondary Outcomes: Mean change in post-bronchodilator FEV₁ from baseline to each post-randomisation visit during the treatment period. Time to mortality due to any reason. Natural log-transformed CRP (mg/L), Mean TDI Focal score during the treatment period
Adverse event data is pooled with numbers from study M2-125 that followed an identical study design

### Notes
#### Risk of bias
| Bias | Authors' judgement | Support for judgement |
|---|---|---|
| Allocation concealment (selection bias) | Low risk | All individuals involved in the studies were unaware of treatment assignment |
| Randomised? | Low risk | "Randomly assigned to oral roflumilast 500 μg once daily or placebo." |
| Method of Randomisation described? | Low risk | "The sponsor generated a randomization list of patient random numbers using a pseudorandom number generator. The investigator used an automated, interactive voice response system to randomly assign patients." |
| Blinding? | Low risk | Double blinded. |
| Method of Blinding described? | Low risk | "All individuals involved in the studieswere unaware of treatment assignment. Tablets were identical in appearance. The investigator or anyone at the study site was prevented from knowing the allocation sequence with code labelling." |
| Description of Withdrawals and Drop outs? | Low risk | 264 patients discontinued from study in the roflumilast group and 234 discontinued from the placebo group |
<PAGE>137