결핵 진료지침
## 참고문헌
1.  Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161:S221-47.
2.  Lönnroth K, Migliori GB, Abubakar I, D'Ambrosio L, de Vries G, Diel R, et al. Towards tuberculosis elimination: an action framework for low-incidence countries. Eur Respir J 2015;45:928-52.
3.  Go U, Park M, Kim UN, Lee S, Han S, Lee J, et al. Tuberculosis prevention and care in Korea: Evolution of policy and practice. J Clin Tuberc Other Mycobact Dis 2018;11:28-36.
4.  Yang J, Lee S, Oh S, Han S, Park SY, Kim Y, et al. The risk of active tuberculosis among individuals living in tuberculosis-affected households in the Republic of Korea, 2015. PLoS One 2019;14:e0225744.
5.  Park SY, Han S, Kim YM, Kim J, Lee S, Yang J, et al. Risk of active tuberculosis development in contacts exposed to infectious tuberculosis in congregate settings in Korea. Sci Rep 2020;10:1306.
6.  Lee S, Lee JE, Kang JS, Lee SO, Lee SH. Long-term performance of the IGRA to predict and prevent active tuberculosis development in HIV-infected patients. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2019;23:422-7.
7.  Kim H, Kim SH, Jung JH, Kim MJ, Kim H, Shin S, et al. The usefulness of quantitative interferon-gamma releasing assay response for predicting active tuberculosis in kidney transplant recipients: A quasi-experimental study. J Infect 2020;81:403-10.
8.  Lee YM, Lee SO, Choi SH, Kim YS, Woo JH, Kim DY, et al. A prospective longitudinal study evaluating the usefulness of the interferon-gamma releasing assay for predicting active tuberculosis in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. J Infect 2014;69:165-73.
9.  Kang J, Jeong DH, Han M, Yang SK, Byeon JS, Ye BD, et al. Incidence of Active Tuberculosis within One Year after Tumor Necrosis Factor Inhibitor Treatment according to Latent Tuberculosis Infection Status in Patients with
<PAGE>317
Ⅷ. 잠복결핵감염