결핵 진료지침

27. Zenner D, Beer N, Harris RJ, Lipman MC, Stagg HR, van der Werf MJ. Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection: An Updated Network Meta-analysis. Ann Intern Med 2017;167:248-55.
28. Yoopetch P, Anothaisintawee T, Gunasekara ADM, Jittikoon J, Udomsinprasert W, Thavorncharoensap M, et al. Efficacy of anti-tuberculosis drugs for the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. Sci Rep 2023;13(1):16240.
29. Tuberculosis elimination revisited: obstacles, opportunities, and a renewed commitment. Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET). MMWR Recomm Rep 1999;48:1–13.
30. Franks AL, Binkin NJ, Snider DE, Jr., Rokaw WM, Becker S. Isoniazid hepatitis among pregnant and postpartum Hispanic patients. Public Health Rep 1989;104:151–5.
31. Gupta A, Montepiedra G, Aaron L, Theron G, McCarthy K, Bradford S, et al. Isoniazid Preventive Therapy in HIV-Infected Pregnant and Postpartum Women. N Engl J Med 2019;381:1333–46.
32. Moro RN, Scott NA, Vernon A, Tepper NK, Goldberg SV, Schwartzman K, et al. Exposure to Latent Tuberculosis Treatment during Pregnancy. The PREVENT TB and the iAdhere Trials. Annals of the American Thoracic Society 2018;15:570–80.
33. Kalk E, Heekes A, Mehta U, de Waal R, Jacob N, Cohen K, et al. Safety and Effectiveness of Isoniazid Preventive Therapy in Pregnant Women Living with Human Immunodeficiency Virus on Antiretroviral Therapy: An Observational Study Using Linked Population Data. Clin Infect Dis 2020;71:e351-e8.
34. Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection. This official statement of the American Thoracic Society was adopted by the ATS Board of Directors, July 1999. This is a Joint Statement of the

VIII. 잠복결핵감염 <PAGE>349