결핵 진료지침

### 참고문헌

10. Abubakar I, Drobniewski F, Southern J, Sitch AJ, Jackson C, Lipman M, et al. Prognostic value of interferon-γ release assays and tuberculin skin test in predicting the development of active tuberculosis (UK PREDICT TB): a prospective cohort study. Lancet Infect Dis. 2018;18(10):1077-87.
11. Campbell JR, Winters N, Menzies D. Absolute risk of tuberculosis among untreated populations with a positive tuberculin skin test or interferon-gamma release assay result: systematic review and meta-analysis. Bmj. 2020;368:m549.
12. Kobashi Y, Mouri K, Obase Y, Fukuda M, Miyashita N, Oka M. Clinical evaluation of QuantiFERON TB-2G test for immunocompromised patients. Eur Respir J. 2007;30(5):945-50.
13. Richeldi L, Losi M, D'Amico R, Luppi M, Ferrari A, Mussini C, et al. Performance of tests for latent tuberculosis in different groups of immunocompromised patients. Chest. 2009;136(1):198-204.
14. Kim EY, Lim JE, Jung JY, Son JY, Lee KJ, Yoon YW, et al. Performance of the tuberculin skin test and interferon-gamma release assay for detection of tuberculosis infection in immunocompromised patients in a BCG-vaccinated population. BMC Infect Dis. 2009;9:207.
15. Nemes E, Rozot V, Geldenhuys H, Bilek N, Mabwe S, Abrahams D, et al. Optimization and Interpretation of Serial QuantiFERON Testing to Measure Acquisition of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2017;196(5):638-48.
16. Slater ML, Welland G, Pai M, Parsonnet J, Banaei N. Challenges with QuantiFERON-TB Gold assay for large-scale, routine screening of U.S. healthcare workers. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013;188(8):1005-10.
17. Lobue P, Menzies D. Treatment of latent tuberculosis infection: An update. Respirology. 2010;15(4):603-22.
18. Kim JY, Jung J, Jung KJ, Hong MJ, Kwak SH, Kim EO, et al. Frequency of and risk factors for reversion of QuantiFERON test in healthcare workers in an intermediate-tuberculosis-burden country. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2021;27(8):1120-3.

<PAGE>332
VIII. 잠복결핵감염