결핵 진료지침
95. Huerga H, Khan U, Bastard M, Mitnick CD, Lachenal N, Khan PY, et al. Safety and effectiveness outcomes from a 14-country cohort of patients with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis treated concomitantly with bedaquiline, delamanid, and other second-line drugs. Clin Infect Dis 2022;75:1307–14.
96. Hewison C, Khan U, Bastard M, Lachenal N, Coutisson S, Osso E, et al. Safety of treatment regimens containing bedaquiline and delamanid in the endTB cohort. Clin Infect Dis 2022;75:1006–13.
97. Mok J, Kang H, Hwang SH, Park JS, Kang B, Lee T, et al. Interim outcomes of delamanid for the treatment of MDR- and XDR-TB in South Korea. J Antimicrob Chemother 2018;73:503–8.
98. Lee HH, Jo KW, Yim JJ, Jeon D, Kang H, Shim TS. Interim treatment outcomes in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients treated sequentially with bedaquiline and delamanid. Int J Infect Dis 2020;98:478–85.
99. Kim CT, Kim TO, Shin HJ, Ko YC, Choe YH, Kim HR, et al. Bedaquiline and delamanid for the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: a multicentre cohort study in Korea. Eur Respir J 2018;51:1702467.
100. Mok J, Kang H, Koh WJ, Jhun BW, Yim JJ, Kwak N, et al. Final treatment outcomes of delamanid-containing regimens in patients with MDR-/XDR-TB in South Korea. Eur Respir J 2019;54:1900811.
101. Kang H, Jo KW, Jeon D, Yim JJ, Shim TS. Interim treatment outcomes in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis using bedaquiline and/or delamanid in South Korea. Respir Med 2020;167:105956.
102. Hwang H, Kang H, Kwon YS, Jeon D, Shim TS, Yim JJ. Outcomes of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treated with bedaquiline or delamanid. Clin Infect Dis 2021;73:1362–9.
103. Donomae I, Gomi J, Horai Z, Kaida K, Kawai N, Kawamori Y, et al. Clinical studies of kanamycin treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1958;76:166–87.
104. Bowen JF, Jones JM, Nash ES, Riley EA, Simpson DG, McClement JH. Clinical experience with kanamycin in chronic pulmonary tuberculosis.
<PAGE>142
Ⅲ. 약제내성결핵의 치료