결핵 진료지침

34. Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection. This official statement of the American Thoracic Society was adopted by the ATS Board of Directors, July 1999. This is a Joint Statement of the American Thoracic Society (ATS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). This statement was endorsed by the Council of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. (IDSA), September 1999, and the sections of this statement. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000;161:S221–47.
35. Huang CC, Becerra MC, Calderon R, Contreras C, Galea J, Grandjean L, et al. Isoniazid Preventive Therapy in Contacts of Multidrug–Resistant Tuberculosis. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2020;202:1159–68.
36. Marks SM, Mase SR, Morris SB. Systematic Review, Meta–analysis, and Cost–effectiveness of Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis to Reduce Progression to Multidrug–Resistant Tuberculosis. Clin Infect Dis 2017;64:1670–7.
37. Bamrah S, Brostrom R, Dorina F, Setik L, Song R, Kawamura LM, et al. Treatment for LTBI in contacts of MDR–TB patients, Federated States of Micronesia, 2009–2012. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2014;18:912–8.
38. Malik AA, Gandhi NR, Lash TL, Cranmer LM, Omer SB, Ahmed JF, et al. Effectiveness of Preventive Therapy for Persons Exposed at Home to Drug–Resistant Tuberculosis, Karachi, Pakistan. Emerg Infect Dis 2021;27:805–12.
39. Fox GJ, Nguyen CB, Nguyen TA, Tran PT, Marais BJ, Graham SM, et al. Levofloxacin versus placebo for the treatment of latent tuberculosis among contacts of patients with multidrug–resistant tuberculosis (the VQUIN MDR trial): a protocol for a randomised controlled trial. BMJ Open 2020;10:e033945.
40. Seddon JA, Garcia–Prats AJ, Purchas SE, Osman M, Demers AM, Hoddinott G, et al. Levofloxacin versus placebo for the prevention of tuberculosis disease in child contacts of multidrug–resistant tuberculosis: study protocol for a phase III cluster randomised controlled trial (TB–CHAMP). Trials 2018;19:693.
41. Diseases NioAal. Protecting Households On Exposure to Newly Diagnosed Index Multidrug–Resistant Tuberculosis Patients (PHOENiX MDR–TB). ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03568383. 2021.

<PAGE>350 VIII. 잠복결핵감염