결핵 진료지침

2005;365:130–4.
12. Iriso R, Mudido PM, Karamagi C, Whalen C. The diagnosis of childhood tuberculosis in an HIV-endemic setting and the use of induced sputum. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2005;9:716–26.
13. Rapid diagnostic tests for tuberculosis: what is the appropriate use? American Thoracic Society Workshop. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1997;155:1804–14.
14. Jensen PA, Lambert LA, Iademarco MF, Ridzon R. Guidelines for preventing the transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in health-care settings, 2005. MMWR Recomm Rep 2005;54: 1–141.
15. Noordhoek GT, Kolk AH, Bjune G, Catty D, Dale JW, Fine PE, et al. Sensitivity and specificity of PCR for detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis: a blind comparison study among seven laboratories. J Clin Microbiol 1994;32:277–84.
16. Montenegro SH, Gilman RH, Sheen P, Cama R, Caviedes L, Hopper T, et al. Improved detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Peruvian children by use of a heminested IS6110 polymerase chain reaction assay. Clin Infect Dis 2003;36:16–23.
17. Gomez-Pastrana D, Torronteras R, Caro P, Anguita ML, Lopez-Barrio AM, Andres A, et al. Comparison of amplicor, in-house polymerase chain reaction, and conventional culture for the diagnosis of tuberculosis in children. Clin Infect Dis 2001;32:17–22.
18. Xpert MTB/RIF assay for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis in children: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet Respir Med. 2015 June;3:451–61.
19. New Diagnostics for Childhood Tuberculosis. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2015;29:477–502.
20. World Health Organization. Automated real-time nucleic acid amplification technology for rapid and simultaneous detection of tuberculosis and rifampicin resistance: Xpert MTB/RIF assay for the diagnosis of pulmonary
VII. 소아청소년 결핵
<PAGE>225