결핵 진료지침
## 참고문헌
1. Lee CH, Hwang JY, Oh DK, Kee MK, Oh E, An JW, et al. The burden and characteristics of tuberculosis/human immunodeficiency virus (TB/HIV) in South Korea: a study from a population database and a survey. BMC Infect Dis. 2010;10:66.
2. Hwang J-H, Choe PG, Kim NH, Bang JH, Song K-H, Park WB, et al. Incidence and risk factors of tuberculosis in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. J Korean Med Sci. 2013;28:374-7.
3. Kaplan JE BC, Holmes KH, Brooks JT, Pau A, Masur H. Guidelines for prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in HIV-infected adults and adolescents: recommendations from CDC, the National Institutes of Health, and the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. MMWR Recomm Rep 2009;58(RR04):1-198.
4. Panel on guidelines for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in adults and adolescents with HIV. Guidelines for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in adults and adolescents with HIV. National Institutes of Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, HIV Medicine Association, and Infectious Diseases Society of America. Available at https://clinicalinfo.hiv.gov/en/guidelines/adult-andadolescent-opportunistic-infection. Accessed October 2023.
5. Abdool Karim SS, Naidoo K, Grobler A, Padayatchi N, Baxter C, Gray A, et al. Timing of initiation of antiretroviral drugs during tuberculosis therapy. N Engl J Med. 2010;362:697- 706.
6. Havlir DV, Kendall MA, Ive P, Kumwenda J, Swindells S, Qasba SS, et al. Timing of antiretroviral therapy for HIV-1 infection and tuberculosis. N Engl J Med. 2011;365:1482- 91.
7. Blanc FX, Sok T, Laureillard D, Borand L, Rekacewicz C, Nerrienet E, et al. Earlier versus later start of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected adults with tuberculosis. N Engl J Med. 2011;365:1471-81.

V. 사람면역결핍바이러스 감염과 결핵 <PAGE>171