결핵 진료지침

9. World Health Organization. The use of molecular line probe assays for the detection of resistance to isoniazid and rifampicin, 2016
10. Ramaswamy S, Musser JM. Molecular genetic basis of antimicrobial agent resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis: 1998 update. Tuber Lung Dis 1998;79:3-29.
11. Nathavitharana RR, Cudahy PG, Schumacher SG, Steingart KR, Pai M, Denkinger CM. Accuracy of line probe assays for the diagnosis of pulmonary and multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Eur Respir J. 2017;49:1601075.
12. Van Deun A, Aung KJ, Hossain A, de Rijk P, Gumusboga M, Rigouts L, de Jong BC. Disputed rpoB mutations can frequently cause important rifampicin resistance among new tuberculosis patients. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2015;19:185-90.
13. Ocheretina O, Escuyer VE, Mabou MM, Royal-Mardi G, Collins S, Vilbrun SC, Pape JW, Fitzgerald DW. Correlation between genotypic and phenotypic testing for resistance to rifampin in Mycobacterium tuberculosis clinical isolates in Haiti: investigation of cases with discrepant susceptibility results. PLoS One. 2014;9(3):e90569.
14. World Health Organization. WHO operational handbook on tuberculosis. Module 3: diagnosis - rapid diagnostics for tuberculosis detention, 2021 update, 2021.
15. World Health Organization. Policy guidance: The use of molecular line probe assays for the detection of resistance to second-line anti-tuberculosis drugs, 2016.
16. Meehan CJ, Goig GA, Kohl TA, Verboven L, Dippenaar A, Ezewudo M, et al. Whole genome sequencing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis: current standards and open issues. Nat Rev Microbiol. 2019;17:533-545.

<PAGE>22