## 참고문헌
1. Kothari A, Mahadevan N, Girling J: Tuberculosis and pregnancy--Results of a study in a high prevalence area in London. European journal of obstetrics, gynecology, and reproductive biology 2006, 126(1):48-55.
2. Cheung JY, Shim SS, Kim Y: Infectious respiratory diseases in pregnancy--results of a 15-year study in Seoul. Clinical and experimental obstetrics & gynecology 2011, 38(4):351-354.
3. Jana N, Vasishta K, Saha SC, Ghosh K: Obstetrical outcomes among women with extrapulmonary tuberculosis. The New England journal of medicine 1999, 341(9):645-649.
4. Jana N, Vasishta K, Jindal SK, Khunnu B, Ghosh K: Perinatal outcome in pregnancies complicated by pulmonary tuberculosis. International journal of gynaecology and obstetrics: the official organ of the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics 1994, 44(2): 119-124.
5. WHO: Treatment of tuberculosis guideline. Fourth edition. 2010.
6. Blumberg HM, Burman WJ, Chaisson RE, Daley CL, Etkind SC, Friedman LN, Fujiwara P, Grzemska M, Hopewell PC, Iseman MD et al: American Thoracic Society/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/Infectious Diseases Society of America: treatment of tuberculosis. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 2003, 167(4):603-662.
7. Mathad JS, Gupta A: Tuberculosis in pregnant and postpartum women: epidemiology, management, and research gaps. Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America 2012, 55(11):1532-1549.
8. WHO operational handbook on tuberculosis. Drug-resistant tuberculosis treatment. 2022 update/ Web annexes
9. Loveday M, Hughes J, Sunkari B, Master I, Hlanghu S, Reddy T et al. Maternal and infant outcomes among pregnant women treated for multidrug/rifampicin-resistant tuberculosis in South Africa. Clinical infectious disease 2021, 72(7):1158-1168.

IV. 특수한 상황에서의 결핵치료 <PAGE>149