결핵 진료지침

## 참고문헌

1.  Cantini F, Goletti D. Biologics and tuberculosis risk: the rise and fall of an old disease and its new resurgence. J Rheumatol Suppl. 2014;91:1-3.
2.  Kedia S, Mouli VP, Kamat N, Sankar J, Ananthakrishnan A, Makharia G, et al. Risk of Tuberculosis in Patients With Inflammatory Bowel Disease on Infliximab or Adalimumab Is Dependent on the Local Disease Burden of Tuberculosis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Official journal of the American College of Gastroenterology ◆ ACG. 2020;115(3):340-9.
3.  Dobler CC. Biologic Agents and Tuberculosis. Microbiol Spectr. 2016;4(6).
4.  Godfrey MS, Friedman LN. Tuberculosis and Biologic Therapies: Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor- α and Beyond. Clin Chest Med. 2019;40(4):721-39.
5.  Song YJ, Cho SK, Kim H, Kim HW, Nam E, Bae SC, et al. Risk of Tuberculosis Development in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis Receiving Targeted Therapy: a Prospective Single Center Cohort Study. J Korean Med Sci. 2021;36(10):e70.
6.  Gómez-Reino JJ, Carmona L, Angel Descalzo M. Risk of tuberculosis in patients treated with tumor necrosis factor antagonists due to incomplete prevention of reactivation of latent infection. Arthritis Rheum. 2007;57(5):756-61.
7.  Fragoulis GE, Nikiphorou E, Dey M, Zhao SS, Courvoisier DS, Arnaud L, et al. 2022 EULAR recommendations for screening and prophylaxis of chronic and opportunistic infections in adults with autoimmune inflammatory rheumatic diseases. Ann Rheum Dis. 2023;82(6):742–53.
8.  Kucharcik T, Ellul P, Greuter T, Rahier JF, Verstockt B, Abreu C, et al. ECCO Guidelines on the Prevention, Diagnosis, and Management of Infections in Inflammatory Bowel Disease. J Crohns Colitis. 2021;15(6):879-913.
9.  Jeong DH, Kang J, Jung YJ, Yoo B, Lee CK, Kim YG, et al. Comparison of latent tuberculosis infection screening strategies before tumor necrosis factor inhibitor treatment in inflammatory arthritis: IGRA-alone versus combination of TST and IGRA. PLoS One. 2018;13(7):e0198756.

<PAGE>358
VIII. 잠복결핵감염