결핵 진료지침
48. Tuberculosis Research Centre. Low rate of emergence of drug resistance in sputum positive patients treated with short course chemotherapy. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 1997;1:509-17.
49. Koh WJ, Kwon OJ, Park YK, Lew WJ, Bai GH. Development of multidrug resistance during treatment of isoniazid-resistant tuberculosis. Eur Respir J 2005;26:557.
50. Kim YH, Suh GY, Chung MP, Kim H, Kwon OJ, Lim SY, et al. Treatment of isoniazid-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis. BMC Infect Dis 2008;8:6.
51. Jacobson KR, Theron D, Victor TC, Streicher EM, Warren RM, Murray MB. Treatment outcomes of isoniazid-resistant tuberculosis patients, Western Cape Province, South Africa. Clin Infect Dis 2011;53:369-72.
52. Gegia M, Winters N, Benedetti A, van Soolingen D, Menzies D. Treatment of isoniazid-resistant tuberculosis with first-line drugs: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet Infect Dis 2017;17:223-34.
53. Bass JB Jr, Farer LS, Hopewell PC, O’Brien R, Jacobs RF, Ruben F, et al. Treatment of tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in adults and children. American Thoracic Society and The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1994;149:1359-74.
54. Guidance for national tuberculosis programmes on the management of tuberculosis in children. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2006.
55. Public Health Agency of Canada. 2014 Canadian Tuberculosis Standards. 7th Edition.
56. Bang D, Andersen PH, Andersen AB, Thomsen VØ. Isoniazid-resistant tuberculosis in Denmark: mutations, transmission and treatment outcome. J Infect 2010;60:452-7.
57. Chien JY, Chen YT, Wu SG, Lee JJ, Wang JY, Yu CJ. Treatment outcome of patients with isoniazid mono-resistant tuberculosis. Clin Microbiol Infect 2015;21:59-68.

Ⅲ. 약제내성결핵의 치료 <PAGE>137