결핵 진료지침

10. preventive treatment. https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240002906. 2020. National Institiute for Health and Care Excellence. Tuberculosis—diagnosis, management, prevention, and control: summary of updated NICE guidance. BMJ 2016;352:h6747 2016.
11. Ena J, Valls V. Short-Course Therapy with Rifampin plus Isoniazid, Compared with Standard Therapy with Isoniazid, for Latent Tuberculosis Infection–A Meta-analysis. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2005;40:7.
12. Spyridis NP, Spyridis PG, Gelesme A, Sypsa V, Valianatou M, Metsou F, et al. The effectiveness of a 9-month regimen of isoniazid alone versus 3- and 4-month regimens of isoniazid plus rifampin for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in children: results of an 11-year randomized study. Clin Infect Dis 2007;45:715-22.
13. Rennie TW, Bothamley GH, Engova D, Bates IP. Patient choice promotes adherence in preventive treatment for latent tuberculosis. Eur Respir J 2007;30:728-35.
14. Assefa DG, Bedru A, Zeleke ED, Negash SE, Debela DT, Molla W, et al. Efficacy and safety of different regimens in the treatment of patients with latent tuberculosis infection: a systematic review and network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Arch Public Health 2023;81:82.
15. Centers for Disease C, Prevention. Recommendations for use of an isoniazid-rifapentine regimen with direct observation to treat latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2011;60:1650-3.
16. Sterling TR, Villarino ME, Borisov AS, Shang N, Gordin F, Bliven-Sizemore E, et al. Three months of rifapentine and isoniazid for latent tuberculosis infection. N Engl J Med 2011;365:2155-66.
17. Martinson NA, Barnes GL, Moulton LH, Msandiwa R, Hausler H, Ram M, et al. New regimens to prevent tuberculosis in adults with HIV infection. N Engl J Med 2011;365:11-20.
18. Sun HY, Huang YW, Huang WC, Chang LY, Chan PC, Chuang YC, et al.

VIII. 잠복결핵감염 <PAGE>347