결핵 진료지침
## 참고문헌
1.  Ellner JJ. Review: the immune response in human tuberculosis-implications for tuberculosis control. J Infect Dis 1997;176:1351-9.
2.  World Health Organization. Guidelines on the management of latent tuberculosis infection, 2015.
3.  American Academy of Pediatrics. Tuberculosis. In: Kimberlin DW, Brady MT, Jackson MA, Long SS, eds. Red Book: 2015 Report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases. Elk Grove Village, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics; 2015:805-31.
4.  Public Health Agency of Canada, The Lung Association, Canadian Thoracic Society. Canadian Tuberculosis Standards, 7th Edition. Canada: 2014
5.  Rigaud M, Borkowsky W. Tuberculosis in children. In: Rom WN, Garay SM, eds. Tuberculosis. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Co.; 2004:607-24.
6.  Marais BJ, Gie RP, Schaaf HS, Hesseling AC, Obihara CC, Starke JJ, et al. The natural history of childhood intra-thoracic tuberculosis: a critical review of literature from the prechemotherapy era. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2004;8:392-402.
7.  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. Tuberculosis: prevention, diagnosis, management and service organization. United Kingdom: 2016
8.  Lewinsohn DA, Lobato MN, Jereb JA. Interferon-gamma release assays: new diagnostic tests for Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, and their use in children. Curr Opin Pediatr 2010;22:71-6.
9.  Starke JR, Committee on Infectious Diseases. Interferon-gamma release assays for diagnosis of tuberculosis infection and disease in children. Pediatrics 2014;134:e1763-73.
10. Farhat M, Greenaway C, Pai M, Menzies D. False-positive tuberculin skin tests: what is the absolute effect of BCG and non-tuberculous mycobacteria? Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2006;10:1192-204.

<PAGE>270 VII. 소아청소년 결핵