결핵 진료지침

## 참고문헌

1.  A double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial of three antituberculosis chemoprophylaxis regimens in patients with silicosis in Hong Kong. Hong Kong Chest Service/Tuberculosis Research Centre, Madras/British Medical Research Council. Am Rev Respir Dis 1992;145:36-41.
2.  Aspler A, Long R, Trajman A, Dion MJ, Khan K, Schwartzman K, Menzies D. Impact of treatment completion, intolerance and adverse events on health system costs in a randomised trial of 4 months rifampin or 9 months isoniazid for latent TB. Thorax 2010;65:582-7.
3.  Ziakas PD, Mylonakis E. 4 months of rifampin compared with 9 months of isoniazid for the management of latent tuberculosis infection: a meta-analysis and cost-effectiveness study that focuses on compliance and liver toxicity. Clin Infect Dis 2009;49:1883-9.
4.  Menzies D, Adjobimey M, Ruslami R, Trajman A, Sow O, Kim H, et al. Four Months of Rifampin or Nine Months of Isoniazid for Latent Tuberculosis in Adults. N Engl J Med 2018;379:440-53.
5.  Bastos ML, Campbell JR, Oxlade O, Adjobimey M, Trajman A, Ruslami R, et al. Health System Costs of Treating Latent Tuberculosis Infection With Four Months of Rifampin Versus Nine Months of Isoniazid in Different Settings. Ann Intern Med 2020;173:169-78.
6.  Centers for Disease C, Prevention. Guidelines for the Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection Recommendations from the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and CDC, 2020. MMWR Recomm Rep 2020;69.
7.  Alvarez GG, Pease C, Menzies D. Chapter 6: Tuberculosis preventive treatment in adults. Canadian Journal of Respiratory, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine 2022;6:77-86.
8.  Chiang C, Wang J, Yu M. Taiwan guidelines for TB diangosis and treatment. Center for Disease Control, Executive Yuan: Taipei, Taiwan 2017.
9.  WHO operational handbook on tuberculosis. Module 1: prevention - tuberculosis

<PAGE>346
VIII. 잠복결핵감염