결핵 진료지침

18. Korayem GB, Alissa DA, AlSuhaibani NI, AlSwailem GS, AlShammari MA, Yaqoob I, et al. Empiric vs screening-based use of isoniazid for tuberculosis prophylaxis: Safety and effectiveness in lung transplant recipients in Saudi Arabia. Transpl Infect Dis 2021;23:e13473.
19. Bae M, Lee SO, Jo KW, Choi S, Lee J, Chae EJ, et al. Infections in Lung Transplant Recipients during and after Prophylaxis. Infect Chemother 2020;52:600-10.
20. Subramanian AK, Theodoropoulos NM, Infectious Diseases Community of Practice of the American Society of T. Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections in solid organ transplantation: Guidelines from the infectious diseases community of practice of the American Society of Transplantation. Clin Transplant 2019;33:e13513.
21. Morris MI, Daly JS, Blumberg E, Kumar D, Sester M, Schluger N, et al. Diagnosis and management of tuberculosis in transplant donors: a donor-derived infections consensus conference report. Am J Transplant 2012;12:2288-300.
22. Bergeron A, Mikulska M, De Greef F, Bondeelle L, Franquet T, Herrmann JL, et al. Mycobacterial infections in adults with haematological malignancies and haematopoietic stem cell transplants: guidelines from the 8th European Conference on Infections in Leukaemie. Lancet Infect Dis 2022;22:e359-e69.
23. Krishnamoorthy S, Kumaresan N, Zumla A. Latent tuberculosis infection and renal transplantation - Diagnosis and management. Int J Infect Dis 2019;80S:S73-S6.
24. Moon SM, Park IA, Kim SM, Park SJ, Jung JH, Kim YH, et al. Living donor tuberculosis infection by tuberculin skin test and interferon-gamma releasing assay in a country with an intermediate burden of tuberculosis. J Infect Chemother 2013;19:1009-13.

<PAGE>366
VIII. 잠복결핵감염