Aminoglycosides and capreomycin in the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: individual patient data meta-analysis of 12030 patients from 25 countries, 2009-2016. Clin Infect Dis 2021;73:e3929-36.
38. Potter JL, Capstick T, Ricketts WM, Whitehead N, Kon OM. A UK-based resource to support the monitoring and safe use of anti-TB drugs and second-line treatment of multidrug-resistant TB. Thorax 2015;70:297-8.
39. England K, Boshoff HI, Arora K, Weiner D, Dayao E, Schimel D, et al. Meropenem-clavulanic acid shows activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis in vivo. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2012;56:3384-7.
40. Hugonnet JE, Tremblay LW, Boshoff HI, Barry CE 3rd, Blanchard JS. Meropenem-clavulanate is effective against extensively drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Science 2009;323:1215-8.
41. Hugonnet JE, Blanchard JS. Irreversible inhibition of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis beta-lactamase by clavulanate. Biochemistry 2007;46:11998-2004.
42. Peloquin CA, Zhu M, Adam RD, Singleton MD, Nix DE. Pharmacokinetics of para-aminosalicylic acid granules under four dosing conditions. Ann Pharmacother 2001;35:1332-8.
43. Jo KW, Ji W, Hong Y, Lee SD, Kim WS, Kim DS, et al. The efficacy of rifabutin for rifabutin-susceptible, multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. Respir Med 2013;107:292-7.
44. Global tuberculosis report 2020. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2020.
45. Bai GH, Park YK, Choi YW, Bai JI, Kim HJ, Chang CL, et al. Trend of anti-tuberculosis drug resistance in Korea, 1994-2004. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2007;11:571-6.
46. Kim H, Mok JH, Kang B, Lee T, Lee HK, Jang HJ, et al. Trend of multidrug and fluoroquinolone resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from 2010 to 2014 in Korea: a multicenter study. Korean J Intern Med 2019;34:344-52.
47. Tuberculosis Research Centre. A controlled clinical trial of oral short-course regimens in the treatment of sputum-positive pulmonary tuberculosis.
<PAGE>136